The Hawks reportedly withheld crucial information from state prosecutors that would have prevented fraud charges being laid against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.
ALSO READ: SACP wants state capture commission scope broadened 
The Mail & Guardian reported on Friday that a confession by a member of the elite priority crime-fighting unit to a senior SA Revenue Service (Sars) employee could prove the Hawks were intent on indicting the minister and former Sars officials Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashule despite having no evidence against them.
According to the paper, the confession was apparently made in October when the Hawks allegedly held Vlok Symington against his will. The Hawks member allegedly confessed to have had a memo authored by Symington exonerating Gordhan “from the outset” of their investigation.
The document contains legal advice from Symington to Gordhan (who was not Sars commissioner at the time) approving the payment of the penalty for then deputy commissioner Pillay’s early retirement and re-employment as a consultant on a contract basis.
Symington reportedly intends to submit an affidavit with police watchdog organisation the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, detailing the exchanges between him and members of the unit during the “hostage” drama.
Video footage of the incident emerged showing the confrontation between Symington and four Hawks officials, including the bodyguard of the tax-collection agency’s commissioner, Tom Moyane.
Among the unit’s members was Brigadier Nyameka Xaba, who was the lead investigator in the case against the former Sars officials.

Last month, National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Advocate Shaun Abrahams withdrew fraud charges against Gordhan and his co-accused, citing the 2009 memorandum that showed there were no reasons why Pillay could not retire early and be reappointed.
In a dramatic twist to the botched prosecution, on Monday it emerged in court papers filed by Abrahams in the Pretoria High Court that the head of the Hawks, Lieutenant-General Mthandazo “Berning” Ntlemeza, had accused him of caving in to public pressure by withdrawing the charges.
In a series of damning letters showing a heated exchange between the two, Ntlemeza also accused the chief prosecutor of acting in bad faith.
Abrahams faces legal action mounted by civil society organisations Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation to have him suspended by President Jacob Zuma pending an inquiry into his fitness to hold office.
The case is expected to be heard next week by a full bench of the court.
ALSO READ: Nxesi warns ANC against factionalism, corruption ahead of 2019