What is it about us tourists that inspires so many locals to see us as cash cows? To automatically assume that we are running around like Scrooge MacDuck with oodles of money? I hate nothing more than the feeling that I m being overcharged or ripped off. And when you travel regularly it becomes part of your being. Like the Sandton Kugel clutching on to her handbag, I am always aware when shopping while travelling. Especially at the ubiquitous markets that are so much a part of everyday life, especially in Asia. When vendors see you wandering aimlessly around in your souvenir T-shirt and a camera attached to your arm, that s when they know that you re fresh off the boat . As a smug tourist I would congratulate myself when I used my smarts to negotiate vendors down from the original price they gave me. Only afterwards I realised that they had probably inflated it so much that even with the discount they were still making a killing off of me. I always thought I was being smart learning to say How much? in the language of the place I visited. While travelling in Vietnam I was surprised to find the price of transport magically being halved when I used just a few Vietnamese words and they could tell that I made an effort to communicate. READ MORE: Why has she stopped wanting sex? In other countries, I found myself stumped when they responded in their language and I was left gawking and trying to make sense of it all. Even though I haven t lived at home for so long, my internal calculator still converts everything into rand. When travelling in countries such as Vietnam, it s nice to see our money stretch far. It s almost like Monopoly money. Although, being a millionaire isn t quite what it s cut out to be! But travelling in Europe and Japan often leaves you feeling like you re haemorrhaging money and tempts you to eat all your meals at a corner shop and hide in your accommodation for the duration of your trip. Being overly nice is detrimental too. When visiting a shop in India I was invited to the back of the store where I was offered a cup of tea and encouraged to try on clothes. I was later given a ridiculous price and coerced into paying. I then realised that the shopkeeper had totally ripped me off and I let it happen with a smile. The best way to avoid being ripped off is to go to a place where they have a set price and go armed with the knowledge of how much things should cost. It also helps to plan your trips. For example, alcohol and cigarettes cost far more in Singapore than at home, so it might pay to stock up or duty free is a great option. When all else fails, the magic big calculator covered in plastic that all vendors seem to have will help you to flex your negotiating skills. It s also important to remember that these people are trying to make a living, so don t be unreasonable with your price. Tourists who constantly haggle are a pain. It would be terrible for any fellow tourist to get that unflattering title.