The ANC Youth League s (ANCYL) KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo is in hot water with the organisation s national leadership after he referred to the governing party s Eastern Cape and Gauteng provinces as a bunch of losers not fit to be elected to the organisation s national executive committee (NEC). ALSO READ: Opposition parties views should not be dismissed as frivolous Briefing the media last week Thursday in Durban, Sabelo made a case for outgoing African Union Commission (AUC) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take over the reins from President Jacob Zuma ahead of the ANC s national leadership elective conference next year. He said the KZN Youth League wanted Dlamini-Zuma to be surrounded with winners and not losers who lost municipalities and couldn t lead the ANC, referring to the embarrassing loss of key metros to the opposition by the provincial structures during the local government elections in August. We want only those that are winning because those who are winning are a clear indication our people have confidence in them. If you go to Free State they are a bunch of winners, if you go to Mpumalanga, they are a bunch of winners, so those are the kinds of leaders we want to lead at national level, Sabelo said. Now the ANCYL in KZN has reportedly received a stern warning from the league&#8217;s NEC for pouncing on the leadership contest before the mother body did. The ANCYL s national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said the youth league would engage with Sabelo over his remarks. We have now sent letters to all provinces in relation to the matter of the 2017 conference. We do not expect any province to pronounce before the national structure pronounces, Mkhize said. Mkhize has also defended the appointment of provincial task teams (PTT) in the Eastern Cape and Gauteng, saying they were geared towards strengthening the youth league as it prepared for its NEC meeting next month. On Wednesday, The Citizen reported that the disbanded ANCYL leadership in the Eastern Cape was operating normally despite an announcement by its national office that a provincial task team had been established to replace the provincial executive committee (PEC). Eastern Cape ANCYL spokesperson Ayongezwa Lungisa lambasted the PTT, saying it was not a legitimate structure of the organisation and the PEC did not recognise the team in its entirety. It is understood the league was disbanded as punishment after it pronounced that Zuma should step down following the Nkandla report. There has been no engagement between our PEC and the NEC of the league since we heard rumours through the media that we have been disbanded, Lungisa said. We have not been given an ear by the national leadership of the ANC Youth League as the Eastern Cape. ALSO READ: DA pins hopes on disgruntled ANC MPs for motion of no confidence He said the provincial league wrote an appeal letter to the ANC at Luthuli House for intervention since the league NEC had not given them a hearing before disbanding the PEC. We hope the ANC will look at this matter with the sensitivity it deserves. We have a tight case, and we will defend ourselves. Lungisa said the league leadership in the province would be operating as usual while waiting for a response to its appeal. &#8211; Additional reporting Eric Naki