The South African Weather Service is hesitant to confirm whether it was indeed a tornado that ripped through several parts of Ennerdale in the south of Johannesburg on Monday night. However, many residents there said it was indeed a tornado they saw moving at a rapid rate. Tawana said whenever there was a watch for severe thunderstorms issued, that meant there was also the possibility of tornadoes. It is very difficult, though, to forecast tornadoes, but they happen usually when there is an intense storm. If it is a tornado, there will be a funnel-shaped cloud that will have to touch the ground, but whether that was the case on Monday night in Ennerdale is something we will have to check first by evaluating the damage caused, Tawana said. READ MORE: UPDATE: Tornado hits Ennerdale, affecting 50 households She said tornadoes in South Africa normally last either for seconds or a couple of minutes. Looking ahead on what the remainder of the week has in store, Tawana said residents in Gauteng, particularly in the south, west and eastern parts of the province, can breathe a brief sigh of relief for today as there is no rainfall on the cards. The rainfall chances will be confined to the northern parts of the province, which includes Pretoria. But the thunderstorms are expected to return again tomorrow and, at the moment, residents in Gauteng can expect a 60% chance of showers and thundershowers, she said. In the North West province, residents in the western parts can expect isolated to scattered showers, while an alert for severe thunderstorms has been issued for the extreme northeastern parts of the Free State. For KwaZulu-Natal, residents can expect a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers, Tawana said. Meanwhile, the City of Joburg says the Alexander Park reservoir is currently running low due to consumption exceeding supply. Some of the areas that have been affected by unplanned interruptions include Kensington, Heriotdale, Cleveland, Bruma and Bezuidenhout Valley. The Aeroton reservoir was also running low, with Diepkloof extension 2 and 10 being the areas also affected by unplanned interruptions.