Ke Dezember, boss! We&#8217;re about two weeks away from those annual words when South Africans take everything to the next level just because it is the last month of the year. Good people, please note that there is etiquette around this. When it comes to weddings, please realise you are a guest and not the centre of attraction. Some people have a tendency of spending that year-end bonus on clothes to outshine the bride or groom. The exact same thing happened this weekend, when one of our celebrities weddings was shaken by a lady guest who decided to wear a white wedding gown. Along similar lines is the idea of the wedding gift registry. I&#8217;m tired of listening to both sides of these arguments, as they make it so difficult for me to know what my take on this is. The first group of couples who are for it note that they are trying to avoid what eventually ends up happening anyway: eight toasters, seven clocks, six irons, five sets of coasters, four kettles, three breadbins, two pairs of kitchen scissors and one chopping board. They&#8217;re saying that they have been together for a while, and they have amassed most of life s assets, such as cutlery and crockery, so they need help with the finer things in life. Then there is the other group of people who see wedding couple as opportunistic freeloaders who want other people to furnish their houses. This group is usually made up of couples who have been married for extended periods of time, and they had to work for everything they have. So they find it difficult to go to a Boardmans, @Home or any other high-end homeware outlet. They find it unreasonable for them to be asked to buy dishwashers, washing machines, Egyptian Duck feather linen with a thread count much higher than the Vaal Dam s levels, smart TVs and the likes. Because ke Dezember, boss , some even ask for overseas trips, boats and flashy cars. I am not opposed to buying the finer things in life for those special people in our lives, but it just has to be in moderation. Just as much as next month will be wedding season, it will soon be baby season, and those very same people will be asking for Ferrari strollers, Bambino cots and imported baby formula. You know what, I have made my mind as to exactly where I sit on this: get your own things! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;