WP rugby football union has announced that it has applied for and obtained an order for the provisional liquidation of WP rugby PTY in which it is a 75.1% shareholder, the president of WP rugby football union, Thelo Wakefield, said at a hastily convened press conference on Monday. Remgro owns the remaining 24.9%. After obtaining legal advice and exploring all options it has applied for liquidation of its commercial trading entity. But Wakefield says the union will not be affected as it is independent of WP Rugby PTY. Wakefield further said that the reality is that WP Rugby PTY has been forced to deal with a worsening financial situation for years now. He blamed a smaller sponsorship pool, a confused Super Rugby format, as well as declining gate and season ticket sales as some of the contributing factors impeding the financial sustainability of the union. But, he said, the tipping point had been the complex legal issues with one partner in particular Aerios over the last year. On the question of debt, Wakefield said: all current liabilities have been settled and all staff and players have been paid. Wakefield also referenced a news article published on October 27 2016 and refuted claims in the report that Aerios owns all the commercial rights to WP: Aerios do not own all the commercial rights to WP as stated by the news article; they were granted certain advertising, digital and wi-fi rights in the stadium. More importantly, WP Rugby has never received a legal claim from Aerios for the amount of R72 million or any other amount. He did add that Aerios had applied to the High Court for an application preventing WP Rugby from dealing with certain advertising rights forming part of various sponsorship agreements. This dispute was settled out of court. Wakefield said the decision came after the franchise explored all the options, including arbitration with its legal team. But with a mandate form the executive it was unanimously decided to liquidate the PTY of which it is the 75% shareholder. Wakefield also pre-empted journalists, denying that the liquidation is a ploy and warning that he would not be answering questions pertaining to that; further adding that the decision was based on Western Province s financial position and that it is in the best interest of the union. He also underlined the role CEO Paul Zacks would be playing in the future of the union. The union says Zacks will be looking for a turnaround strategy, developing new business models and be presenting the strategy to the union with the goal of transforming WP into the best rugby franchise in the world. As for the R11.2 million projected loss mentioned in the October 27 News24 report, Zacks said the numbers are confidential, but confirmed a substantial loss for the financial year. -Brought to you by Moneyweb