Two housebreakers were arrested on Saturday after a teenage girl, who was alone at her Menlyn Park home, alerted her parents to the home invasion. Police spokesperson Captain Colette Weilbach said the girl s mother called the Brooklyn Community Police Forum chairperson, Paul Fouchee, on Saturday afternoon to inform the forum of her daughter&#8217;s dilemma. &#8220;Mr Fouchee immediately contacted the security forum that consists of different security companies that are working in the Brooklyn policing precinct,&#8221; Weilbach said. &#8220;A security officer from CSI Tactical Response Unit, Nico Mans, responded and as he arrived at the house, the suspects were leaving the house with a television.&#8221; One suspect opened fire on Mans who then returned fire, hitting the suspect in the upper leg. The injured suspect ran back into the house and the other one jumped into the neighbour s yard. Weilbach said, in the meantime, the police and the high-risk unit and other security companies also responded and managed to arrest both of the suspects. The injured one was hiding inside a bathroom in the house. Police found housebreaking implements, an unlicensed firearm and stolen property. The vehicle that was used by the suspects was also recovered. Housebreaking implements were recovered. On Sunday afternoon the neighbour found the second firearm with gloves on top of his roof where the second suspect threw it during his attempted escape. &#8220;Through further investigation, it was established that the vehicle the suspects were using was stolen a few months ago in Brooklyn. One of the suspects is also wanted on a Mamelodi murder case, Weilbach said. The suspects, in their 30s and from Mamelodi, will soon appear in the Pretoria Magistrates&#8217; Court on charges of attempted murder, housebreaking, possession of a stolen motor vehicle and property as well as possession of housebreaking implements. Weilbach said 84 suspects had been arrested over the weekend in the Tshwane Central Cluster.