The ANC and Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe on Thursday called for tougher steps against state entities who flout financial controls after Auditor General Kimi Makwetu reported an 80 percent increase in irregular expenditure. The ANC said it wanted greater consequence management for those organs of state which continue to post qualified and adverse audit findings , while Radebe told a post-Cabinet briefing he would back any measure that would strengthen the hand of the Chapter 9 institution. We have not discussed it as Cabinet but speaking for myself, any measure that will bring about an improvement of the quality of audits for government departments will be applauded, as a principle, but I suspect that my colleagues will agree. The minister, who also speaks for Cabinet, said there had been general consensus among his colleagues when they had been briefed by Makwetu in the past, that there should be strict controls. We fully support that we should leave no stone unturned to hold accountable those responsible for their action or inactions. Makwetu reported an overall improvement of eight percent in audit outcomes for the financial year that ended in March but at the same time a surge in irregular expenditure, which totalled more than R46.3 billion. ALSO READ: Parly watchdog slams Sanral over R1.1bn in irregular spending He deplored what he termed a tendency to show discretion in complying with procurement rules and rampant unaccountability, warning that if unchecked it would lead to large-scale derailment of government programmes. On Wednesday, the ANC MP who chairs the parliamentary committee that oversees the AG, Vincent Smith, said there was a need to look at the powers of the chapter nine institution and see if these could not be strengthened. But the ANC, in its statement on Thursday, said the AG s directives were in fact binding in law but there was a need for firmer steps against those who showed a disregard for proper standing, in particular repeat offenders. The Auditor General of South Africa is a Chapter 9 institution established to support and strengthen constitutional democracy. Its findings and directives, such as any other Chapter 9 institution, have legal effect and should be binding, the party said. Greater consequence management must be implemented and the remedial actions proposed by the Auditor General must be more directly aligned to performance management within government departments, ensuring corrective action can be taken in the case of non-compliance. &#8211; African News Agency