No one likes a smart Alec. Therefore, as a rule, columnists should avoid saying I told you so . Today I break that rule. On August 12 last year, 15 months ago, I said this about Donald Trump in a Citizen column. Journalists who queue to berate him miss the point. Trump is setting the news agenda Part of his appeal is that he is politically incorrect. Trump has tuned in to a widespread disenchantment with traditional politics. It takes different forms in the US, UK and here. There is a universal urge to break the mould. Everywhere, the voices of the people are striving to be heard. The intelligentsia scoff at populism. However, correctly played, it is a trump card. Since then, Britons voted to leave the European Union and Americans elected Trump as president. Ho hum. Did I tell you so? Did I predict a Trump victory? No. I merely pointed out that the media were getting it wrong. Much coverage on CNN, for example, has occurred within a cocoon of self-validating assumptions. And when media do this, they drive more people into the opposite camp. They re still doing it now. They cannot accommodate the cognitive dissonance that would arise from connecting their prejudices with objective realities. Headlines scream shock victory. Who is shocked? Journalists and pollsters are most shocked. They can t explain, so it must be a shock. Another coping mechanism is to label others racist and right-wing when, in fact, some of Trump s economic views lean left. The race and gender profile of Trump voters is not much different than those of Mitt Romney and John McCain in previous elections. ALSO READ: Chinese media praise Trump s experience and ideology Yet these two weren t demonised in the same way. One difference in this election was Hillary Clinton a weak link. Despite being a media darling, she did not get as much support from minorities as Barack Obama had done in 2008 and 2012. Given the popular mood, Clinton was a poor choice by the Democrats. She is the ultimate Washington insider, with a condescending air. Her e-mail-server problems and Trump s Crooked Hillary jibes caused damage. But she sealed her fate when she said her opponent s supporters were deplorables . Trump did indeed attract some people of that ilk, as media keep reminding us. But even Clinton realised her exaggeration would cost her dearly. Let s be clear, I am not a Trump supporter. His political incorrectness can be entertaining but the flaws are manifold. However, for South Africans to compare him to Hitler is absurd. Look closer to home for really dangerous racist demagoguery that goes unpunished. Today s column is about something else. Having been a journalist for 45 years, I find it deplorable when media are so out of touch with people in so many places. Trust in mainstream media in the US is at an all-time low of 32% deservedly so. With credibility at rock bottom, the Fourth Estate cannot fulfil its role as a pillar of democracy. Pity. Democracy needs support.