A week after appearing in Newcastle, KwaZulu-Natal, EFF leader Julius Malema is expected to appear today in the Bloemfontein Regional Court. AfriForum s complaint against Malema in December 2014 was in terms of the Prevention of Illegal Eviction from and Unlawful Occupation of Land Act, stating it was illegal for a person to occupy land without the permission of the owner or person in charge of the land. The complaint came after he encouraged his supporters at an EFF conference in Bloemfontein to occupy land nationwide. We are going to occupy the unoccupied land because we need the land, Malema reportedly told the gathering. For us to eat we must have the land. For us to work we must have the land. I come from Seshego. If there is unoccupied land we will go and occupy the land with my branch. You must go and do the same in the branch where you come from. In Newcastle, Malema was charged under the 1956 Riotous Assemblies Act by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for inciting people to commit a criminal act by telling a gathering to move onto unclaimed land. Malema took offence to the apartheid-era law, saying it was constitutionally invalid. In court, Malema s lawyer, Tumi Mokoena, cited the preamble of the act to consolidate the laws relating to riotous assemblies and the prohibition of the engendering of hostilities between the European and non-European inhabitants of the union and matters incidental thereto , saying he would challenge the validity of the act. A deal between Mokoena and NPA advocate Jabulani Mlotshwa meant Malema had to make his case to the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria by December 7. If this happened, then Malema s case would be remanded in absentia to May 5. Given the land occupation act was enacted in 1998, Malema was unlikely to use the same approach, although there was confusion over the charges, with the EFF yesterday stating he was again being charged under the Riotous Assemblies Act. A night vigil was also expected to take place on Sunday.