As we learn more about how to treat cancer, the number of people surviving it is increasing. The developed countries are already seeing this trend brought about by long years of research and increased funding that has made novel treatment options available to more people.In the USA for example, a 20 per cent drop in cancer incidence and mortality rates have been reported since 1991 and this has been accredited to tobacco control and medical treatment.This expected increase in survivorship calls for us to be ready to learn how to take care of those that will have survived the disease. The outcome of the survival will be individualised.A cancer survivor usually faces physical, emotional, social and financial challenges after the cancer diagnosis and treatment. Depending on the type of cancer, patients can be left disabled or debilitated. The cancer itself or the treatment can cause this. Hence, the most obvious trauma for cancer survivors is the physical one. This is the most obvious because it s the one that can be easily appreciated by the clinician, caregivers and friends.We have the capacity to take care of the physical trauma associated with cancer. Oncologists can refer such patients to our rehabilitation centres at MNH, MOI and other private centres. Rehabilitation can begin as early as during treatment, giving a chance of optimizing the quality of life. Although physiotherapy is still evolving in the country, it is the biggest part of the current rehabilitation.Cancer of the bones can leave patients without limbs after treatment. Providing them with a prosthesis may come in hand to restore their livelihood. There are some cancers that attack the spine leaving the patent unable to walk. Such patients benefit, depending on the nature of the cause, from physiotherapy coupled with the cancer treatment.Other challenges can be emotional, social and finances. They are equally important and must be addressed from the beginning. It is important for clinicians to talk more to our patients and whenever possible refer them to other specialists for rehabilitation. The financial challenges stems from the long duration of cancer treatment that involves expensive drugs especially for patients who pay cash. Being attended by a professional psychologist and joining a financial schemes can be part of the solution.For individual institutions treating cancer patients the idea of starting up cancer support groups holds water. Here, patients are able to air out their problems to ease the emotional tension.The support group will also be an opportunity to share experience and information at patient level on how to live with cancer and free of cancer after treatment. As much as it can be part of a treatment model, it can also be the renaissance of a campaign team to fight cancer.Cancer is here with us and projected to leap in numbers as mentioned in the recently ended World Cancer Congress in Paris last Tuesday. With time, our health care systems will be strengthened. This may lead to more people living with cancer rise. These people with still require care to restore their former livelihood so that they may continue to work for this nation.Hence, rehabilitation should be intertwined in cancer treatment from the start by every clinician.