Court proceedings turned absurd when a man gave the crowd the full Monty in the Pretoria Magistrates&#8217; Court on Monday, reports the Pretoria East Rekord. The unstable man , as described by an eyewitness, was in court for malicious damage to property. The witness, Judy Smit, said: The proceedings were under way when somebody started rattling the bars in the holding cells below the court room. She said the judge asked the orderly to check what was taking place because it was disturbing the court. Smit said the orderly stopped the rattling but as soon as he returned, it started again. She said a decision was made by court officials to remove the man from the cells and bring him into the courtroom. She said she realised the man was troubled immediately when she saw him even before he started attacking the orderly. He headbutted the orderly and I told my son there would be trouble and the man would break loose, Smit said. After assaulting the orderly, the man slipped out of the protected area where prisoners give their evidence into the public area. All of us screamed and ran to the back of the court, she said. She said the man then stripped naked in full view of everybody. The man jumped on top of the judge s bench and said that it was his turn to talk because he had something to say. She said the judge escaped as the police tried to calm the man down without success. Smit said the man continued yelling and throwing files, staples and chairs on the floor. She said she was shocked to see the police making videos and laughing instead of trying to restrain the man. She said the officers from the public gallery went out the courtroom to get help but were told by the officials in adjoining courtrooms that only officials assigned to the troubled courtroom could address the problem. These people are our police, but how must we trust them if they cannot even assist us, she said. Smit said this debacle went on for hours before help arrived. Tear gas was eventually used in the courtroom to subdue the man, but he continued by eventually running out of the courtroom. She said the man was finally restrained after a policeman tackled to the ground in the corridor. His mother tried to calm him down and prayed. Watch the video here but please be aware the evidence of mental illness is disturbing: Smit said no one was injured but noticed the man was bleeding from the head. We were just choking from the tear gas and our eyes were affected. Smit said this was the second incident at the court this year. She said a month ago, a man attacked a guard and took his pistol. Caxton News Service