Dar es Salaam. Tennis Development Partner Inger Njau has been appointed the new Tennis for Africa Representative in Tanzania, opening a potential new chapter in the country s development of the sport.Due to her 30-year experience in tennis development initiatives, Njau will be responsible for fostering long-term relations between Tanzania and Italy particularly in the areas of sports, social and cultural development.Speaking when unveiling four beneficiaries of the forthcoming Italian tennis tour, Tennis for Africa coordinator Fabrizio Caldarone noted that Njau will galvanise tennis development at local level while at the same time cooperate with Tennis for Africa to improve Tanzania s tennis potential.Caldarone named the four as Goodluck Mollel, Abuu Risasi, Martin Yona and Salum Msafiri who passed through a vigorous selection field of 12 potential athletes at the just ended BQ Open 2016 Tennis Tournament hosted at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club.The Italian Ambassador to Tanzania Roberto Mengoni lauded the occasion saying success of the initiative would potentially open a huge cooperation between Tanzania and Italy particularly in the areas of social, cultural and sports development.The ambassador said: This is a wonderful initiative not only for the direct beneficiaries of the trip but mainly for the two nations. We will work and support a long term relationship that will benefit Tanzania and Italy for generations to come. On the technical aspect, the visiting International coach noted that Tanzania has a huge potential among the youth that should be exploited fully.Caldarone said: This is the beginning of a new tennis journey for Tanzania. I am proud to share this particular achievement with the BQ Open Tennis fraternity and the tennis committee at Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club for their hospitality. Together, we are going to open a new chapter for tennis development with Tanzania. The most important aspect now is to root for support from the Tanzanian government through the ministry of Sports, Arts, and Culture. Most importantly is to encourage all partners to invest more in junior development as a collective project for today and the future. While accepting the new role as representative for Tennis for Africa in Tanzania, Njau was all smiles saying she was particularly happy to be part of the new initiative as it connected well with the theme of the annual BQ Open Tournament.She said: We have made a massive stride and BQ Contractors Limited has been a massive support. It is nice to see that we are today sharing the little blessings. The tournament theme of helping kids cut a balance between academic performance and sports connects very well with Tennis for Africa belief that sports remains a universal language for educating kids. We are therefore optimistic for a bigger cooperation with Italy. I am personally convinced that the four will learn and improve their tennis potential either as players and managers as well. 