It may be tragically unhip to say it, but I appreciate hipsters. We all should. For the record, many years ago I dated the prototype, the original South African founder of the accidental movement, and probably the current Hipster King. He was a photographer with a hat, a beard, tattoos, a charity shop T-shirt saying Indiana , a houseshare in (then derelict) Woodstock, and a homemade guitar, which he played in a multiracial band at an illegal pop-up bar. He built motorbikes for fun, ground his own coffee, sewed his own Valentine s gifts and made furniture from pallets. We were never meant to be beanies make my head itch but he was a good guy, and that s the thing about hipsters: they are good guys. And good girls. They re the arty kids. And that makes them an easy target. Critics say hipsters don t stand for anything, and they have been blamed for everything, from gentrification to the price of avocados. ALSO READ: Society needs to rise up against domestic violence Angry class war protesters even attacked the daft face of hipsterdom, the Cereal Killer Cafe in London where you can buy a bowl of overpriced Coco Pops at any time of day and daubed scum on the windows. Not McDonalds, or Unilever, or a money-grabbing banking conglomerate, but an independent little shop owned by gay twins from Belfast, who had a quirky idea and ran with it in the premises of a defunct video store in a grubby part of town. How The Man must laugh. It s happening in downtown Johannesburg now, just like it did in Woodstock, or in Brooklyn or even London back in the day. The art and fashion students, aka hipsters often penniless, but enthusiastic, progressive and curious drift into forgotten derelict areas with affordable rent, and bring with them creativity and imagination. They forge possibility. Offbeat stores and markets open, clubs appear, whimsy and wonder abound, and regeneration begins. But then along come the developers and regeneration is replaced with gentrification. So yes, this isn t a noisy counter-revolutionary movement. The hipster mission isn t an enraged uprising at some injustice, but instead a simple search for a meaningful life. They make things, and they quietly make things change and that s lovely. Jennie Ridyard