South Africa s prisons are cauldrons of human rights violations. Overcrowded and with a prison population of 159 241 inmates (including pre-trial detainees) as of March 2015, it is the 11th-highest prison population in the world. With most of its correctional service officers undertrained and corrupt, to sustain a human rights culture is difficult. However difficult the challenge, with political will it is possible to maintain basic standards of human rights. But with substance abuse the order of the day, HIV/Aids rife, and prison gangsterism insidious, control of the prisons is not for the faint-hearted. It therefore comes as no surprise that Oscar Pistorius s legal team has succeeded in getting him special privileges on the grounds of his disability, but also not least because he is white. Initially, wanting to be known for his ability, as a prisoner Pistorius has used his disability to plead special favours. As a former human rights commissioner, who investigated all the prisons in the Western and Northern Cape, and who exposed the human rights violations of prisoners, I would be the first to argue that all prisoners are entitled to basic human rights as far as their access to food, water, shelter, dignity and privacy are concerned. Prisoners with disability need special services, depending on their disabilities. That is why it is hard to argue against Pistorius s rights to services and facilities to accommodate his disabilities, but then it should apply to all prisoners equally. Pistorius won the right to be transferred from the Kgosi Mapuru II prison in Pretoria Friday 12 18 November 2016 accommodating 7 000 prisoners, to one in Atteridgeville with rehabilitation programmes for prisoners serving up to six years. The prison has special needs facilities, hence Pistorius victory. What I should like to know is how many of our prisoners are disabled? How many of them are black? How many are white? And how many are given access to facilities with special needs? Unless these statistics are declared openly and transparently, we can confidently claim that Pistorius, since day one, enjoys special pleading and is a beneficiary once again of white privilege a term I do not use easily as it is easily bandied about in our race-obsessed country. But it is these kinds of public acts of favouritism for some, who are considered more equal than others, that enrage the public and perpetuate racism and perceptions of racial privilege. The alternative argument against people with disabilities is about those who argue for equality, yet use their disability, even when they have conquered it to seek special favours. This is a difficult argument. In my view, though, as a Paralympics medallist, Pistorius can hardly use his disability to score special privilege when he can so easily outrun most people. Should he not be treated like everyone else? The Bill of Rights allows for positive discrimination of people with disabilities but how do we deal with this constitutional prerogative that is applied to some who, because of their class status, can fight their case, when many others languish in jail discriminated by the very state that has a duty to make reasonable adjustments for people with disabilities? This should apply equally to all. FILE PICTURE: Rhoda Kadalie, anti-apartheid activist, making a speech in Athlone.