Joburg could be the first city in the country to drop its urban speed limit from 60km/h to 40km/h to reduce pedestrian road fatalities. If this happens, the city will follow international trends in some of the world s capital cities, the speed limit is 40km/h or even 30 km/h. Councillor Nico de Jager, chairperson of the transport oversight committee, hatched the idea and said this was still his personal thinking at the moment. He pledged to lobby hard to ensure the idea was implemented in an attempt to curb pedestrian deaths in the city. He said it was alarming that although 70% of South Africans walked to catch taxis and buses, or walked to work or school, there were limited pavements for pedestrians and none in some suburbs and townships. Remember that sidewalks are no less important than the roads used by motorists. The value we give to the rights of motorists must be equal to pedestrians rights, De Jager said. World Health Organisation statistics show that, every two minutes, a pedestrian is killed worldwide. ALSO READ: White woman raises money for coffin assault victim De Jager said this was the equivalent of two passenger planes falling from the sky every day. The WHO s global status report on road safety 2015 indicated that 50% of the 1.25 million people dying on the world s roads annually were vulnerable road users. The African region had the highest road traffic fatality rate at 26.6% while Europe had the lowest rate at 9.3%. The most important thing for me is to reduce the speed limit on our suburban streets, said De Jager. This has to happen, even if it means adjusting our traffic lights to synchronise with a 40km/h speed limit. He said, in response to the WHO report that indicated increased fatalities were related to high speed, the committee was considering reducing the speed limit to 40km/h in suburban areas, especially in the inner city and around schools. This will not only reduce fatal pedestrian and cycling accidents from 80% to 30%, but encourage walking, cycling and more friendly interaction between all those that use public open spaces, De Jager said.