&#8220;Bring back the death penalty! It s a cry that seemingly resonates with the same intensity among blacks as it does among whites, in township shebeens as it does in country club pubs. Unfortunately, the issue of a nation s right to execute has in South Africa for more than two decades been a subterranean and essentially pointless conversation. A 1995 Constitutional Court judgment formally abolished the death penalty, five years after it had been suspended during the negotiations to shape a democratic, constitutional state. The decision, at that moment, fortuitously chimed emotionally with the fact that hangings had been often been used as a political tool by the white minority against the black majority. Abolition was, too, part of a seemingly irreversible historical tide all around the world. Things change, however. Tides are never irreversible, nor do rational bulwarks hold sway indefinitely, as evidenced by the growing traction of populism in the United States, Europe and South Africa. It is also worth remembering that a number of nations with which the ANC identifies ideologically, such as Cuba, the Palestinian Authority, and Iran, have capital punishment. Of our new best friend, the Brics nations, India and China execute with enthusiasm, Brazil in exceptional circumstances, and in Russia the option remains codified but unused, for the moment. ALSO READ: Govt will do all in its power to protect women, children Zuma And the anti-death penalty movement in Africa, despite the support of the African Union, has never been as strong as elsewhere in the world. Of 54 African Union states, 38 retain the death penalty, albeit many don t use it. Commitment to abolition, like the waning African enthusiasm for the International Criminal Court, is conceivably a momentary aberration. Our immediate neighbours Lesotho, Swaziland, Zimbabwe, and Botswana all have the death penalty and at least two of them Botswana and Zimbabwe apply it vigorously. That especially our neighbours have exponentially lower rates of violent crime than we do, should surely interest our social scientists? But even in academia the heavy hand of intellectual unanimity chokes curiosity and investigation. It is against this backdrop that the Institute of Race Relations (IRR) this week released a timely report questioning whether abolition was the right decision, in the light of almost half-a-million murders since 1994. It is a sober and, as one would expect from SA s premier think-tank, even-handed analysis. Both the hang-them-high populists and the effete purveyors of love and forgiveness should read it. The IRR tested five objections to the death penalty that it is cruel and unusual ; that it is retributory beyond the pale; that it is arbitrary; that it is not a deterrent; and that there is possibility of irreversible error. It was able to overcome the first four but the most compelling argument was the possibility of error in an ailing, incompetent SA criminal justice system. The IRR concludes that while a case could be made to reopen a death penalty debate it would have to overcome that fifth objection. So the genie is out let the debate begin. William Saunderson-Meyer