Every parent wants the best for his/her child. However, the future of the child to a great extent depends on how he/she has been raised and nurtured by a parent or guardian. Indeed, raising children can be very difficult in today s world that s full of technology and new inventions that tend to distract a growing child and compel cultural integration.Raising a child requires time and effort in order for them to grow up with moral astute. Experts are of the opinion that being a good parent can be complicated when one doesn t have the time for parenting, this is further complicated with the changing way of living where children tend to grow up very fast.Parenting can be wonderful and stressful all in one fold. But the reward for good parenting is seeing your child grow up the way you raised them. The feeling can be quite bitter if the child grows up contrary to how you tried to raise him\her.We all know that children are bound to grow up and become adults eventually, but it s that journey that scares most parents. The prospects that maybe your child will get lost along the way and not become the person you want them to be. Parents foresee the highs and lows of parenthood and the whole scenario becomes more difficult than most hope for.Dorothy Kipeja, an entrepreneur and a mother of two decided to come up with a notion that would help ease the burdens of parenthood. After noticing some changes in her daughter s behavior; which included being pestered with multiple questions on various subjects, she imagined that there are many parents who go through the same situation and some might not know how to handle it. Bridging the gapThrough consultation with her friend Sarah Mauki, Dorothy came up with an idea of organising an event that will gather mothers and their children under one roof. The event, Mother and Child Gala would act as a bridge between mothers and their children. As a mother, I came to realise that soon my child will become a teenager. So what I did, was to have a one-on-one discussion with her, knowing that, this will allow her to ask all the difficult questions she faces in her transition, said Dorothy.She recalled when at the age of 13, her mother decided to take her to her aunt. I didn t understand why my mother decided to take me to stay with her elder sister while she was able to talk to me straight about my bodily changes. I later realized that the peer as well as social pressure I was facing during my transition to become a teenager, was a factor in her decision, she recalls. Now that I m a mother too, it s my turn to help my daughter go through her transition in the best way possible, she states.Dorothy had a different idea from her own mother s on how to handle her daughter s changes. After seeing my daughter s transition, I told myself that I will not take her to any relative. I decided to talk to her and give her the chance to ask me anything because by doing so it will make her not hesitate to face me whenever she has crucial or personal issues to ask, noted Dorothy. Bringing children closer to parentsDorothy s whole idea was aimed at bringing children closer to their parents. She is of the view that children have been mistreated and alienated in some ways by parents because they don t get enough education and information about their bodily changes from their parents. They learn everything concerning such changes from the internet, friends, and strangers. When our children come to us asking questions about sexuality and reproductive health issues, we tend to be too serious, sometimes we chase them away, we don t give them straight or correct answers concerning such issues, explained Dorothy.Due to the fact that parents are the bread winners and have to work hard for the welfare of their children, most of them do not have enough time to cater to their children s other needs. Parents have forgotten their parenting responsibilities. Children need us a lot, apart from providing them with basic needs and other material things, we need to play the role of confidants and advisers, she noted.She appealed to parents and guardians to ensure they have at least set aside time to speak to their children. Make sure that you have time for your children. Talk and listen to them and allow them to ask whatever question that bothers them. Believe me, if you do this regularly and establish a friendly environment with them, you will be able to know many things about them that you could have never imagined, she urged, adding: Most children have been badly treated by people who are close to them and sometimes by people we trust so much and hence need someone such as a parent to talk to. Dorothy believes that by frequently having Mother and Child Galas, like the one she organised, which goes with the Kiswahili theme Maongezi ya Leo ni Msingi wa Kesho , which literally translates to: Today s Talks are Tomorrow s Pillar , parents would have the forum to talk, learn and exchange ideas and experience s with their children. They can learn from each other the tricks on how to talk openly to their children and how to raise and nurture them in an upright manner. Parents will also have the opportunity to speak to physiologists about certain behaviour witnessed in children and how to handle children with such behavior, she added. Experts take on the issueTeachers and psychologists who spoke at the event echoed the importance of one-on-one talks between parents and their children. Speaking to Woman, a teacher from Msimbazi Secondary School, Sylivia Luambo reminds parents on how they can inspire their children s manners. She said that when you greet your child, greet him/her with a kiss or hug, tell her how much you love/him her, because this is a sign of love and mercy. Read books and short stories to them; this creates a strong bond and wonderful memories. Take them to greet their grandparents, make sure they interact with your parents, ask them to talk to their grandparents when you take them for a visit. They are bound to return the favour when they grow up, Sylivia notes.She adds, When driving your children to school, church and other outings, don t play CD S. Talk to your children, this will endear them closer to you. Parents should also respect the privacy of their children by knocking and waiting to be welcomed before entering his/her room; they will do the same to you. This is sense of value and self-esteem. She advises parents not to blame or comment on every word or action children do. The good thing you can do is to let it go sometimes, by doing so you will build self-confidence and make them feel responsible. Expert in Psychology and relationship Chris Mauki, praised the idea of having such a gala that reconnects the bond between mother and child. As a guest speaker at the gala, he noted that not many times do parents get time with their children especially on informal occasions. We reminded parents especially mothers on the need for parent-child relationships, need for a close talk and sharing with their kids and disclosing sex education issues earlier than waiting for them to hear from teachers or other people.Mauki is of the opinion that it is culture that makes it hard for parents to impart sex and relationship education to their kids, and also stressed about the negative effect of such failure to discuss.To colour the gala there was a dance where children got to dance with their mothers. Apart from that, there was dress code for all participants which required mothers to match their outfits with their children s making it more colourful. etungaraza@tz.nationmedia.com