Irregular expenditure of just over R1.1 billion by the SA National Roads Agency (Sanral) which has received widespread criticism for e-tolling in Gauteng shows a lack of discipline, the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) has said. This after Parliament s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) on Wednesday sent Sanral packing for not providing it with information related to the irregular expenditure. ALSO READ: Parly watchdog slams Sanral over R1.1bn in irregular spending According to a statement issued on behalf of committee chairperson Themba Godi, Scopa had stipulated all the information required from Sanral in the invitation letter sent to the agency&#8221;. The Committee is shocked at the apparent lack of preparation displayed by Sanral, Godi charged. Scopa further said it found Sanral s presentation to be vague and with no specific information . Outa chairperson Wayne Duvenage charged that the state-owned entity has become very relaxed in its responsibilities towards the public over recent years . We are pleased at Scopa s hard attitude and stance taken to hold Sanral s management accountable and not allow them to simply fob the public off with their lame excuses and poor explanations, he said. Outa is finalising its updated research on Sanral s inflated road construction costs which points to a gross overpayment of the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project (of which e-tolling is used to fund) by more than double the price they ought to have paid, which has cost the public an additional R10 billion. This is just another example of Sanral s senior management s lack of fiduciary duties, which has resulted in unnecessary costs that must ultimately be born by the taxpayer. Duvenage further claimed what makes matters worse is that Sanral has significant financial problems and one would expect their management to be watching and managing all avenues of expenditure to ensure they do not rely on bailouts from Treasury . Outa will lodge complaints with Scopa, the Public Protector and other institutions for Sanral s highly dubious accounting practices reflected in their financials, wherein they continue to account their irrecoverable e-toll debt as a trade-receivable asset , he added. We believe the Sanral s executive board members and their CFO must be held accountable and the necessary corrective action should be taken by the minister of transport to rectify this situation.&#8221; Sanral in a statement said this year it had received its 13th unqualified audit from the Auditor General. The presentation this morning was the first time Sanral has been called to account by Scopa, said Koos Smit, its acting CEO. The matter was not finalised and the agency will return next week to provide detailed information per line item, it said. At the heart of the matter is Sanral s routine road maintenance (RRM) contracts, which are in place on 100% of its network. These contracts are a great incubator of small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) and in line with Sanral s policy of ensuring that a significant amount of work is awarded to SMMEs. RRM contracts are awarded for three years and renewable for two years, subject to satisfactory performance. The development of SMMEs forms part of Sanral&#8217;s broader socioeconomic development strategy and we always look for ways to enable local communities to enjoy the long-term economic benefits from Sanral projects. The finding of irregularity was made because neither the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act nor its regulations define the lowest acceptable price , added Smit. And Sanral had in the past used a method to determine a viable lowest acceptable price. According to Sanral In 2015/16 it awarded 210 contracts worth R14.8 billion for new works, rehabilitation and maintenance projects. SMMEs earned a total of R3.5 billion of which R1.9 billion went to more than a thousand black-owned enterprises. Sanral s projects created the equivalent of 15 721 full-time jobs. These numbers are important to us as every job means that a family is being fed. We will continue to make every effort to grow the economy and play our part in the socioeconomic upliftment of the people of our country, while acting in accordance with the law, he said. We value the opportunity given by Scopa to provide further detail and we hope to conclude the matter satisfactorily next week. 