For a large part of my dating life, I ve leaned towards monogamous relationships and, much like many others, I did this because I wasn t aware of just how many different ways there are to date and love. Around 2013, I went through my hoe phase and enjoyed some delicious casual sex. There are few things that are as fun as safe, consensual and incredible sex that doesn t ask more of the people involved than mutual enjoyment. No strings attached and you still get your clit rubbed? Yes, please. I m a huge fan of it and am always encouraging people to have more sex, so why not make it casual? Well, some people aren t quite sure if they actually can, what they should consider and, of course, how to go about doing it. So I ve come up with a short listicle for some of the etiquette people need to consider before, during and after a casual encounter. Here we go. Figure out what you want first I am always telling people to be honest with themselves before trying anything new in their sex lives. You should ask yourself why it is you re curious about a specific sexual act, why you d like to have a threesome, why you like being choked and why you want casual sex should be no different. The answer need not be complex, only honest. I like sex. I enjoy pleasuring other people. And I quite like being given opportunities to push my boundaries a little and explore acts I never would have usually. So casual sex held the answer for me. In addition to this, I had just been in a long relationship and wanted to enjoy sex that was new, exciting and came with no romantic feelings. Once you ve established what you want, you can go ahead and find someone whose wants match yours. Establish rules This sort of sex may be casual, but outlining some rules is the way to make sure you keep things simple and enjoyable with the partner you pick. These rules could be just for yourself, or if your casual encounter is repeated, you and the partner can agree to certain terms. You may not want to have casual sex too often, you may prefer to avoid bringing others home. Or, together, you and your sexual partner can choose to establish boundaries perhaps they don t like being kissed on the lips if the sex is casual, maybe you choose to decide how often you ll meet. Whatever the rules you decide, make them clear, simple and make sure they re understood by both of you. Stay honest This is casual sex, nothing else, and there s absolutely nothing wrong with meeting for the sole purpose of meeting your sexual desires as long as you re honest about it. Enter the dynamic being honest with what you want to get out of it and make sure your expectations are the same. If you re looking for a relationship, say so and, if not, make that clear. It isn t fair to either of you if you enter that room looking for different things and no one wants to end what could have been incredible sex with hurt feelings. Be kind! We re all aware that this isn t a relationship, but that doesn t mean you should be an asshole. Simple as that. Keep communication open At times, casual sex can just be a once-off event, but at other times it repeats and, in those times, make sure you re both in it for the same reason, as said above. Communicate during sex too your sexual partner may consent to sex with you but they may not consent to other specific sexual acts. So make sure you re aware of active sex, make sure they re okay when you want to try something new and that you re both having sex you enjoy. Maintain safety Always ALWAYS use protection. Ask questions about how they maintain their safety with other partners and when last they were tested. No amount of trust should get in the way of your own safety. Don t engage in BDSM with complete strangers um, hello, why would you let someone you don t know choke or tie you up? Don t take any sort of abusive behaviour from your sexual partner. Make sure everything is done safely and consensually. Got it? Good. Enjoy yourself Go forth and orgasm! Casual sex, when done in a way that works for both parties is one of my favourite things. And each definition differs from person to person. Maybe you have a friend you have sex with now and again. Maybe you have a couple of people, or just one or you want one, crave one or maybe have a person you know you can always rely on when you just need a face to sit on. As long as it s safe and consensual in all ways, both physically and emotionally healthy for each person then well *curls toes and bites a pillow*. To chat to The Citizen&#8217;s sex columnist or ask Tshegofatso a question, you can drop her a (friendly) email on hello@mbongomuffin.com