It is one of those idiosyncrasies that run through the very fabric of sport that the magic of the marathon finds followers even among those who normally wouldn t dig into their reserves to run for a bus. But it must also be said that watching athletes pound the roads for two hours and more requires patience, concentration and probably the same masochistic traits so essential for the people prepared to tackle the classic 42.2km distance. The upside for armchair supporters is the chance to enjoy a break at anytime, be it of the enforced variety or simply to fill in a troubling crossword clue which has become apparent in a sudden flash of inspiration. There is also the chance of a relaxed libation in comfort rather than the snatched paper cup of water, which is the fate of the athletes out there on the road. And so it was that the Arithmetically-challenged Golfer and two somewhat reluctant Scots the Edinburgh Exile and the Craftsman from Aberdeen, a man who had arrived slightly late, having been involved in reshaping his lounge floor settled down to watch the New York Marathon, one of the great races of its genre. There was dead silence from the transition as the elite women set off from Staten Island and traversed the long arch of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and on into Brooklyn. This unnatural silence was broken by the Exile. At least we re not watching rugby reruns, he said, a wide grin indicating that he was only half serious. The commentary suddenly bursts into a burst of a tongue foreign to the watching trio. What is that they re speaking? asked the somewhat bewildered Craftsman. I think it s Portuguese, ventured the Arithmetically-challenged One. Then what possible use is that to us? replied the Craftsman, shaking his head. There was, quite literally, no reply to that one. While the pace of the women s race started to hot up, the American commentary gradually came back, prompting the Craftsman to remark that he preferred the Portuguese to the non-stop American whitter . The Americans were in full flow as diminutive Kenyan Mary Keitany, the second-fastest woman in marathon history behind Britain s Paula Radcliffe but omitted from her national team at the Rio Olympics, surged away to finish unchallenged in 2:24:26 and her third consecutive victory. The lass can certainly run, said the Craftsman. An almost identical scenario began to play out in the men s race as 20-year-old Eritrean Ghirmay Ghebreslassie, at 19 the youngest winner of the World Championship marathon in Bejing last year, hit the front and stayed there, to win in 2:07:54, a scant five seconds off his personal best. The lad can certainly run, said the Craftsman. There was one final question from the Arithmetically-challenged One. Did you get your floor fixed in that kind of time? he asked. The Craftsman glared at him and replied: Oh no. It took much longer than those two &#8230; but then I m an artisan, not an athlete. 