A huge amount of fruit burned to ashes when a white Toyota Quantum burst into flames yesterday afternoon. The taxi was standing at the traffic light on the corner of Stanza Bopape and Steve Biko streets in Arcadia in Pretoria when suddenly it started burning. Luckily, there were no passengers in the taxi at the time. The driver managed to escaped unharmed. The taxi burned for at least 20 minutes. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson Johan Pieterse said they arrived on the scene shortly after the fire started and managed to put it out. He said it was always hard to tell right from the start what the cause of the fire was. A taxi is seen burning after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles A taxi is seen burning after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles People passing by are seen pushing a parked car away from a burning Taxi, after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles People passing by are seen pushing a parked car away from a burning Taxi, after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles A taxi is seen burning after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles A taxi is seen burning after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles A taxi is seen burning after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles Firefighters are seen extinguishing a burning taxi after it randomly caught fire in Pretoria CBD, 29 November 2016, no one was injured in the incident. Picture: Jacques Nelles Tshwane Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintended Isaac Mahamba warned taxi drivers as well as private motorist that they would be coming down on them hard. He said they would not tolerate vehicles that were not in a condition to be on the road. Most of the fatalities are because of human error, and we have to stop this. We have deployed officer all over the City of Tshwane and on surrounding highways, and we are going to come down hard on those who are speeding and those who are driving under the influence of alcohol. If your vehicle is not roadworthy, we will confiscate the licence disc and fine the driver, Mahamba said. He encouraged all motorist to have a good look at the vehicle and to have everything fixed to avoid any problems. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.