Mbudya and Bongoyo islands in the north of Dar es Salaam are increasingly becoming weekend getaways of choice for many city dwellers.However, very few know that the preferred islands were a mere fishing area before the government declared them as part of Dar es Salaam marine reserves way back in 1975.That time, fishers from nearby Kunduchi, Kawe and Msasani areas continued with their day to day activities on the uninhabited islands for their survival.While fishing was the major income earning activity, there were also people who collected and sold cowrie shells to foreigners who visited the islands. These businesses were a threat to biodiversity and tourism.Coral reefs are important for many different reasons aside from supposedly containing the most diverse ecosystems on the planet, according to experts.Coral reefs protect coastlines from the damaging effects of wave action and tropical storms, they provide habitats and shelter for many marine organisms and produce nitrogen and other essential nutrients for marine food chains.According to members of Mbudya and Bongoyo conservation groups, overfishing and collection of coral reefs had become a threat to nature such that fish species were on the verge of disappearing.The population increase in the Central Business District of Dar es Salaam and human activities threatened nature on the Indian ocean islands including Bongoyo, Mbudya and others. Because of this, establishment of a legal framework for conservation and management of marine resources became necessary. In 1994 the legislation to specifically deal with the management and administration of the Marine Parks and Reserves Act No 29, of 1994 was enacted by Parliament. The Act provides for a legal framework for the conservation, management and wise use of marine environment with its prolific animals and plant life. It also provides for all reasonable uses by fisher folks, commercial operators and holiday makers, scientists, divers, photographers and reef watchers, Magreth Mchome, a senior Marine Parks and Reserve Unit warden in Dar es Salaam says.The move implied that communities from Kunduchi and other areas alongside the Indian ocean offshores made less use of the islands because laws limited their activities there. But some had made these Islands (Bongoyo and Mbudya) a part of their lives and it was therefore difficult to totally prohibit them from engaging in income generation activities there, says Mchome.She says enacting the law was one step for protecting and managing marine resources but implementing it in the area where human activities had been conducted unregulated was a challenge. We didn t have enough financial resources and manpower to deploy security boats on these islands. It was a challenge conserving the area where people were fishing and collecting coral reefs freely, Mchome says.Lack of funds for deploying security forces, guiding and providing services to visitors in the two islands became a challenge. This is where the concept of engaging the citizens, known as honorary rangers came in.Honorary rangers are voluntary guardians whose roles are to take care of the islands in terms of security, cleanliness and guiding tourists. To earn their daily bread, government has allowed them to provide food, beverages and camping services to visitors. Involving the localsMfaume Majaliwa is among citizens in Kunduchi whose life depends on selling drinks and fast food to Mbudya island visitors. A honorary ranger himself, Majaliwa ditched illegal fishing and became a honorary ranger of the island, thanks to Marine Parks and Reserves community engagement programme.This programme aims at recruiting citizens to voluntarily conserve the two islands and encourage them to conduct income generating activities that do not affect the environment and nature. The move followed after failure to get appropriate private investors who could provide security, camping and other tourism activities while preserving nature.As the Mbudya conservationist, Majaliwa s role is to ensure the island s beach is secured from illegal blast fishing and coral reefs and waste collectors by informing marine authorities who cooperate with water forces to arrest invaders. He also works as a guard of the rare birds and animals living on the island. There was a day when fishers invaded the Island and were using blasts. We communicated with marine authorities who in turn alerted the police. Police arrived to the area and we cooperated with them in arresting some fishermen and seized their fishing tools, says Majaliwa who has been working on the Island for 15 years.Before his engagement in the programme, like Majaliwa, Hamis Aziz was also a fisherman and coral reefs collector around Mbudya island. He admits his activities were a threat to the island but his 25 years of experience on the Island has become important in making sure that tourists keep visiting the place. Do you see these hypodermic needles? These are coming from the mainland (Dar es Salaam). Poor management of wastes in the city is a disaster to the islands in the Indian ocean. The ocean never hides anything dumped in its waters hence wastes get pushed here by the waves, Aziz tells me.He says if he does not clean the environment by collecting wastes pushed to the Island, tourists will not be interested to visit the place.Aziz says wastes scare island visitors who are customers of their food and camping services. The business, he says would be affected if he and his fellow honorary rangers do not clean the environment. There are two types of wastes here; there are those brought here by the winds from the mainland and the others by visitors. We collect and store them in containers which are later transported by boats for disposal, he adds.On behalf of government marine agency, Aziz and other honorary rangers are making sure that fishing activities are carried 200 metres away from the island so that coral reefs are not disturbed.Bongoyo island, not located far from Mbudya is the most preferred island compared to Mbudya, thanks to Bongoyo Conservation Group.Like in Mbudya, the group is comprised of locals, who before the serious implementation of marine laws, were engaging in fishing, timber harvesting and coral reefs collection.Bongoyo island conservation group chairman, John Mbuwa says the area is a no-take zone meaning that both locals and foreigners who visit are not allowed to extract or remove anything found in the area that has been declared a national reserve. Therefore apart from selling foods, drinks or fruits to visitors, we monitor their movements and whenever they want to take anything, we prohibit them from so doing, he adds.Mbuwa who has been working at Bongoyo for nearly 17 years is thankful of the existing arrangement between them and Dar es Salaam Marine Parks and Reserve unit because, while they are taking care of the islands, they generate income from tourists in the process.Acting senior marine warden Jairos Mahenge says; Some of the locals have good experience in the area. They guide tourists, they know how to swim and when to visit which areas because some are dangerous to visit at particular times. The warden says some areas have powerful currents hence riding in such areas can be risky. Moreover, the rangers assist experts and marine students in the field who visit the islands for learning or research purposes. Mr Mahenge also added that climate change is a threat to the area hence when they note any physical change like soil and sand erosions, the honorary rangers quickly notify the authorities. He said an in depth study is needed to come up with solutions on mitigating the impact of climate change for sustainable tourism.He encourages university students who are studying marine related courses and researchers to conduct a study on climate change and its impact on marine reserve areas like Mbudya and Bongoyo. He believes that answers on how to fight the consequences of climate change will be provided by research. Email: sgiliard@tz.nationmedia.com 