Two of the men accused of the rape and double murder in Rhodes Park last year, told the high court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate s Court on Friday, that they were assaulted and coerced by police to make a confession when they were arrested. On Thursday, lawyer Thulasizwe Mpanza, for Thabo Nkala, said on the night of Nkala s arrest, police assaulted his client and told him what to say when he made a statement regarding the crime in Rhodes Park in April last year. He said police forced him to point out the scene where the incident had occurred. In addition to his testimony, the 25-year-old told his defence that he was taken to a house in Yeoville where he was pepper sprayed, electrocuted and then afterwards handed a document with information to memorise and ordered to use the details when making a statement. My client says the next day, another police officer collected him from Cleveland police station and took him to the same house where he was previously assaulted, there were already two police officers named JB and Howard, they assaulted him again in the same manner as before and forced to point out the scene where the crime was committed, Mpanza said. According to Mpanza, his client was also taken to Rhodes Park to rehearse what he will be doing the next day with the investigating officer. ALSO READ: Police await forensics to complete Moreleta hostage killing case Nkala, Edmore Ndlovu, 23, Mduduzi Lawrence Mathibela, 32, are allegedly part of a gang that forced the husbands into the lake where they drowned and sexually assaulted and raped their wives. Robert Xaba, for Ndlovu told the court that his client was also taken to the same house as Nkala and was severely assaulted by the same police officers named JB and Howard. Police officer Lufuno Mbaqa who arrested both men was called in by Prosecutor Monde Mbaqa to give his account of details concerning the arrests of both men. He explained that the suspects were arrested on different days and he was was in the company of different officers. I was with Mr Patrick Murphy when I arrested accused number one (Nkala). He was cooperative and even confessed to the crime while I was telling him his rights and we took him to Yeoville police station. He told the court that he was alone when arresting Ndlovu but had obtained assistance from Metro police officials who were nearby the scene. Judge Papi Masopa asked Sono if he knew police officers by the names of JB and Howard. No my lord I don t know them, he replied. On Thursday, Lieutenant Colonel Bhuti Duma, who had taken Nkala to Rhodes Park to point out the crime scene, told the court that there were no signs of injuries or fear on the accused. He told me that he s doing the pointing to clear his conscience, said Duma at that time. He said he had asked Nkala if he had any injuries or bruises to which he said no. The matter was adjourned to November 21. &#8211; African News Agency