Justice Minister Michael Masutha says last month s controversial meeting between President Jacob Zuma and National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Advocate Shaun Abrahams at the ANC&#8217;s Johannesburg headquarters, Luthuli House, was a convenient location for the president at the time. ALSO READ: Motshekga doesn t think ANC harbours criminals and corrupt people In a written parliamentary response on Monday to a question posed by Cope MP Deidre Carter, Masutha said the meeting he also attended along with Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini (apparently as acting defence minister) on October 10 was an emergency. It was an emergency meeting called by His Excellency, the honourable president, who invited ministers of the justice, crime prevention and security cluster. The president was leaving the country later that day. The location was most convenient, as most of the members of the executive who attended the meeting were already at the venue for other commitments. Due to the urgency of the situation the meeting thus took place at this venue, Masutha said. Carter wanted to know why Luthuli House was chosen as the venue for the meeting. The meeting behind closed doors took place a day before Abrahams announced his decision to charge Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and two former SA revenue service (Sars) officials with fraud. Masutha reiterated that the meeting was meant to address the rapidly degenerating situation at university campuses during the #FeesMustFall protests. But the absence of the minister of police, Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande and Gordhan raised serious questions about the meeting s objectives. ALSO READ: Netshitenzhe: Cyril should succeed Zuma Masutha said it wasn t necessary for Abrahams to discuss the fraud charges against the finance minister, as he had been informed about them beforehand. It was deemed prudent to return the appropriate state intervention to stabilise the situation, as buses were burning, shops were being looted, streets were barricaded, buildings and vehicles were being vandalised, and harm was inflicted on persons. At the time, Presidency spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga confirmed that the meeting did happen but said the president had not invited Abrahams.