The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) has declared war on anyone calling on President Jacob Zuma to step down, saying he was democratically elected by the people and would be removed by them. There have been growing calls for Zuma to step down following the release of the State of Capture report and his much-publicised association with the controversial Gupta family. Affiliated to the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), NUM targeted the Democratic Alliance (DA) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Today, we are being told by the enemy that we must overthrow the people s president, said NUM general-secretary David Sipunzi, addressing the union s youth structure national conference in Irene, outside Pretoria, on Thursday. Whether we like it or not, Zuma as the president of South Africa was elected by the people, not even by the ANC. My belief is that it is the people that will take Zuma out of office. Last week, the DA s motion of no confidence against Zuma in parliament failed once again. They gang up like toothless hyenas and make motions of no confidence in the president a hobby, Sipunzi said. You never hear these people debating in parliament about the alleviation of poverty. All they concern themselves with is the removal of Zuma as if that is service delivery . He lashed out at DA leader Mmusi Maimane, saying he was given the party s leadership position because he is a black man and speaks good English. ALSO READ: Rampant corruption will spark public revolt, says NUM Sipunzi told the crowd that opposition parties were quoting former president Nelson Mandala in their desperate attempts to woo young people to vote for them. I want to believe that Mandela would not have been where he was had he not joined the ANC, Sipunzi said. Therefore you cannot divorce him from the ANC. Sipunzi said there will never be a time that NUM, which is backing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to replace Zuma as ANC leader at the party s elective conference next year, would not vote for the ANC in the elections. Those who are talking too much against the ANC today, they are the same ones who promised to scrap e-tolls should they be elected to power, Sipunzi said. They are co-governing Johannesburg and e-toll gantries are still there. It doesn t take a rocket scientist to see that these are liars. If there are problems within the ANC, it is our duty to stay at home and fix the problems. Sipunzi also admitted that NUM, which was facing challenges, had lost the respect and militancy it used to have. He said the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union was eating into NUM s membership base.