Ross Fisher, the 2014 runner-up, was amongst a trio of leaders after the first round of the Nedbank Golf Challenge on Thursday, while Race to Dubai leader Henrik Stenson took his round deep before a late surge left him one off the pace at Sun City. Fisher used the experience of four previous tournaments at Gary Player Country Club and good judgement off the tee to shoot a four-under-par 68, matching the impressive scores posted earlier by the experienced Felipe Aguilar and talented young Korean Jeunghun Wang. Stenson, who has never finished lower than fourth in his six appearances, was one-over-par after seven holes and level-par after his second bogey of the day on the 13th, but the 2008 champion then produced a run of three successive birdies from the 15th hole to rise dramatically up the leaderboard. South Africans George Coetzee and Jaco van Zyl, Frenchman Victor Dubuisson, in-form Swede Alex Noren, Scotsman Richie Ramsay and England s Chris Wood joined Stenson on three-under-par 69, while three more golfers Thomas Aiken, Julien Quesne and Fabrizio Zanotti were on 70. In terms of the Race to Dubai standings, Stenson s closest challenger, Danny Willett, had a miserable day with a three-over-par 75. He fired a calamitous eight on the par-five second hole and then found more trouble on the third and eighth holes as went out in 40. Fisher, who finished four strokes behind Willett in the 2014 Nedbank Golf Challenge, only had one bogey in his round, on the par-four 17th, ironically after what he considered a decent drive, and the Englishman said he is going to keep attacking despite the obvious dangers a course with brutal rough poses. I m going to keep on attacking and make as many birdies as I can, because you know you ve got to shoot low here to have a chance of winning. But there are times to be aggressive and times to be more strategic, and the more you play this course the more you understand how to play.&#8221; So I hit Driver quite a bit and had a good look at some birdies, attacking the par-fives [two of which he birdied]. But I didn t hit my Driver particularly well and so had to go a bit defensive on some holes, Fisher said. Stenson, neatly tucked in one shot behind the leaders, has control of the order of merit race and he said that he is going to stay patient through the four days at Sun City. Just as he did on Thursday when he waited for the scoring holes around the turn and then the closing holes to catch fire. I m so happy with the day&#8217;s work, it was below average on the front nine and a struggle. But I hit it nicely on the back nine and rounded with some good birdies on 15, 16, 17 and a good par save on the last. So I m very happy with that round.&#8221; Of course you&#8217;re always going to look a little bit and see what the other guys are doing, but at the end of the day I&#8217;ve got to focus on my game and I managed to do that, a satisfied Stenson said. Of course there are still 54 holes of golf to go before Nedbank chief executive Mike Brown writes the R15.8 million winner s cheque on Sunday afternoon, and some clear title contenders are lurking just off the pace. Those praying for the first local winner since 2007 will be pleased that, apart from Coetzee and Van Zyl, Branden Grace (-1) and Louis Oosthuizen (level par) are still very much in the abbey, so to speak, while Retief Goosen, the elder statesman, will be thankful for his 73. Not all the contenders avoided disaster though with Martin Kaymer having a muck day as he finished the first round in last place after an 81 that included three double-bogeys and four bogeys. For Aguilar, the 42-year-old Chilean lying 58th in the Race to Dubai, birdies on the 16th and 17th holes were a tremendous coup as they lifted him into a share of the lead. I know there are tough holes and I just try to not make mistakes, big mistakes. Sometimes there are a couple holes here that you just try to make birdies on another hole. I try to be very strategic, I don&#8217;t go for every single hole out here. It worked out today and hopefully it will work out for the next three days, Aguilar said after his round. Wang s round, which featured just a solitary bogey on the par-four sixth, was also a top-class effort. I made a lot of one-putts and great, big saves. So I&#8217;m trying to keep making pars. I did well today, it was a good round for me, the 21-year-old, already a two-time winner this year, said.