Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Advocate Michael Masutha on Friday reaffirmed his support for the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Let the good work that has been done by the NPA not be undermined by recent events. The organisation has a very significant role to play in administering justice every day. Let us support the NPA and its prosecutorial team to do their work, without fear, favour or prejudice, said Minister Masutha. Masutha met with the leadership of the NPA including the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shaun Abrahams, the Deputy National Directors of Public Prosecutions and the Regional Directors of Public Prosecutions. During the tenure of the current leadership of the NPA, the organisation has achieved overall 93.8 percent conviction rate from April 2015 to end September 2016. In respect of the high courts, the NPA obtained a 93 percent conviction rate while in the regional and district courts, the conviction rates were 80 percent and 95 percent respectively for the same period. The conviction rate for complex commercial crime cases stood at 91.5 percent, while convictions in sexual offences cases stood at 71.5 percent, Masutha said. READ MORE: Arms deal s Fana Hlongwane loses bid against Absa Masutha appealed to members of the public and the media to allow the NPA to carry out its mandate, as guided by the Constitution and the National Prosecuting Authority Act (Act 32 of 1998). On October 11, Abrahams announced that Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, former South African Revenue Services (Sars) commissioner Oupa Magashula and former Sars deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay had received summons to appear in court on November 2 on fraud charges related to the approval of the latter s early retirement with full benefits. A public outcry ensued, with suggestions from various quarters that Gordhan was being pursued on criminal charges as part of a battle for control of the Treasury. After significant pressure from opposition parties, civil society organisations, and even from within the ruling African National Congress, the charges were withdrawn. African News Agency