The delay in completing the Rustenburg Rapid Transport (RRT) network is beyond the control of the Rustenburg municipality, mayor Mpho Khunou said on Friday. The project is behind scheduled, there are various factors that delayed the project, there were issues of compliance and also litigations, he said. Khunou launched the construction of the three projects in the Rustenburg inner city, which consists of section A, the R104 (Swartruggens road) to Oliver Tambo Drive, section B from the intersections of Oliver Tambo and Thabo Mbeki drive, and section C, corner of Thabo Mbeki and the entire Nelson Mandela drive to the beginning of section A. The construction in the inner city was expected to commence in January. The Rustenburg Rapid Transport System aims to meet the transport needs of more than 200,000 commuters in the platinum rich city and the surrounding areas once completed. The RRT project was supposed to be operational in 2016 but due to a legal battle between the municipality and one business, the construction in the inner city was stalled. ALSO READ: Minister Masutha reaffirms support of the NPA Mwenzi Service Station CC trading as BP on the corner of Nelson Mandela and President Mbeki Drives, sought compensation from the municipality for the adverse effect that it alleged the establishment of the RRT would have on its business. It then sought a high court order to interdict the construction of the RRT network within the Rustenburg central business district including the construction of a central bus station on President Mbeki Drive between Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo Drives. The municipality said construction on the Boitekong-Kanana route along the R510 road would be completed by December this year. While the inner city was being completed, busses were expected to run on the R104 route, followed by the R510 route and later the inner city route. Khunou appealed to residents to be patience as there would be disruption during the construction on the inner city network, saying in the end residents stand to benefit. Rustenburg is one of 13 cities around South Africa selected by national government to implement a public transport improvement project. African News Agency