Parliament&#8217;s watchdog, the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa), on Wednesday sent the South African National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) packing . This, after Sanral responsible in large part for the controversial e-tolling system in Gauteng and the company it has subcontracted to run it had not provided Scopa with information it had requested on irregular expenditure amounting to R1.1 billion. ALSO READ: It&#8217;s time to make Sanral accountable Outa According to a statement issued on behalf of committee chairperson Themba Godi: Scopa had stipulated all the information required from Sanral in the invitation letter sent to the agency. The Committee is shocked at the apparent lack of preparation displayed by Sanral, he charged. Scopa further said it found Sanral s presentation to be vague and with no specific information . And the Chairperson of the board and the management of Sanral could not give answers to the questions asked by members of the Committee. Scopa requested Sanral to send to the committee all the required information, including details of who is responsible for the irregular expenditure and whether that amount has been recovered . Sanral must provide the information to the Committee by Wednesday, November 23. The state-owned agency in a statement said this year that Sanral received its 13th unqualified audit from the Auditor-General. The presentation this morning was the first time Sanral has been called to account by Scopa, said Koos Smit, its acting CEO. The matter was not finalised and the agency will return next week to provide detailed information per line item, it said. At the heart of the matter is Sanral&#8217;s routine road maintenance (RRM) contracts which are in place on 100% of its network. These contracts are a great incubator of small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) and in line with Sanral&#8217;s policy of ensuring that a significant amount of work is awarded to SMMEs. RRM contracts are awarded for three years and are renewable for two years, subject to satisfactory performance. The development of SMMEs forms part of Sanral&#8217;s broader socioeconomic development strategy and we always look for ways to enable local communities to enjoy the long-term economic benefits from Sanral projects. The finding of irregularity was made because neither the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) nor its regulations define the lowest acceptable price , added Smit. And Sanral had in the past used a method to determine a viable lowest acceptable price. According to Sanral In 2015/16 it awarded 210 contracts worth R14.8 billion for new works, rehabilitation and maintenance projects. SMMEs earned a total of R3.5 billion of which R1.9 billion went to more than a thousand black-owned enterprises. Sanral s projects created the equivalent of 15 721 full-time jobs. These numbers are important to us as every job means that a family is being fed. We will continue to make every effort to grow the economy and play our part in the socioeconomic upliftment of the people of our country, while acting in accordance with the law, he said. We value the opportunity given by Scopa to provide further detail and we hope to conclude the matter satisfactorily next week. 