With almost a year and a few months since the French carmaker unveiled its SUV-inspired production model, dubbed the KWID, the Boulogne-based company has finally announced the availability of its hatchback for the South African market. Much more like the Kadjar and positioned as the entry-point into Renault&#8217;s product line-up, the KWID is available in Expression and upper-level Dynamique variants. . As per Renault, the car offers a robust and a stylish exterior, plus a much more welcoming interior. It overturns established entry-segment design cues thanks to its robust, stylish exterior plus a modern and welcoming interior equipped with generous cabin space as well as features and fitments normally unattainable in its class. &#8220;The KWID is an entirely new car which offers a lot of surprises both inside and out, including features from the next segment up,&#8221; said David Durand, head of KWID styling. Quality interior appointments ensuring that driver and passengers stay connected include a MediaNav navigation/multi-media system complete with large 7&#8243; (18cm) touchscreen display, radioand Bluetooth connectivity housed in its piano-black centre console with chrome surround (Dynamique only). This eminently modern newcomer features SUV styling and construction. Its high stance and durable design underscore a sense of security while its longer wheelbase (2 422mm) allows for a spacious comfortable cabin plus more rear leg room. Boot space of 300 litres puts the new Renault KWID on par with an upper-segment vehicle. Both derivatives boast a new and improved 999cc Smart Control efficiency (SCe) engine matched to a 5-speed manual gearbox. . With so much competition in its segment, Renault managed to give the KWID a high ground clearance of 180mm, which is more than most of its competitors. With the introduction of the new KWID, Renault has gone a considerable step further in designing a new breed of vehicle in the growing small-car segment. &#8220;KWID&#8217;s SUV lines mirror its tough, robust character and underpin its distinctive modern look,&#8221; said Laurens van den Acker, senior vice-president Renault Corporate Design. At the rear, the lower part of the bumper comes with a black trim another SUV cue and the body-coloured tailgate spoiler adds to the car&#8217;s dynamic stance. Carrying over styling cues seen in most Renaults, the new KWID&#8217;s interior boasts horizontal, uncluttered lines on the dashboard. The digital instrument cluster and centre fascia, which houses the centrally positioned MediaNAV system creates a contemporary high-quality feel that combines practicality and style (Dynamique only). . The height-adjustable front seats are generously sized, offering superior comfort, while the electric power steering and one-touch lane-change indicator make driving a breeze. Electric front windows add to driver and front passenger convenience while the powerful air-conditioning with heater ensures driving pleasure irrespective of the weather. All controls are easy to reach from both driver and passenger sides. The open storage space facing the front passenger, lower glove box (plus upper glove box in Dynamique variant), driver and passenger in-door storage space with 1-litre bottle holder and rear parcel tray translate to practical and convenient stowage space. The compact 1.0- litre 3-cylinder Smart Control efficiency engine powering both KWID models has been optimised for power and performance and pushes out peak power of 50kW @ 5 500 rpm and maximum torque of 91Nm @ 4 250 rpm. Drivers will enjoy its good responsiveness and drivability at low revs and wide torque band across the rpm range. An extremely fuel-efficient petrol-powered engine, it&#8217;s paired to a 5-speed manual gearbox and delivers an incredible 4.71 litres/100 km. The fuel tank holds 28 litres. . Renault Warranty As is the case across Renault&#8217;s entire product range, the new KWID Dynamique and Expression derivatives come standard with a 5-year/150 000km mechanical warranty and a 6-year anti-corrosion warranty. Services take place at 15 000km intervals. Optional service plans are available. KWID Expression 1.0-litre SCe R 119 900 KWID Dynamique 1.0-litre SCe R 129 900