The Gauteng department of education is deeply shocked and concerned by the stabbing incident of a school principal at Paul Mosaka Primary, south of Joburg, who was stabbed yesterday, November 14, 2016. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who visited the school this morning, has described the stabbing incident that happened at Paul Mosaka Primary School as embarrassing. Speaking to teachers and learners at the Pimville-based school, the MEC said: What happened at your school was very unfortunate, and it should have not happened. We will work with the police to ensure that the perpetrator does not get bail for his safety and that of other teachers and the learners, Soweto Urban reports. The MEC assured the learners that their principal were recovering well at hospital and would be back to the school soon. Right now I want you to go back to class, forget everything else and focus on your studies so that you can pass and be doctors and pilots, Lesufi told learners. Ward 22 councollor Lizzy Mabasa said the matter involving the teacher was first brought to her last year. &#8220;It was brought to my attention that there was a teacher with fraudulent qualifications who is intimidating the principal. The police were informed, but they couldn t arrest him. I am very shocked and disturbed about what happened in front of the learners, said Mabasa. READ MORE: Fake qualification teachers to leave profession immediately She said she spoke to the parents of the learners and tried to calm them down on Monday after the incident. Gauteng department of education s acting head of communications Oupa Bodibe told The Citizen: &#8220;The principal was stabbed multiple times by a former educator at the same school and is currently in critical condition at the hospital. Preliminary investigation reveals that the former educator gained entry by overpowering the female patroller who was on duty by pushing her to the ground. Once inside, he smashed the principal s car windscreen with a hammer and proceeded to stab the principal in full view of some learners.&#8221; He added: &#8220;It must be noted that this is a police matter, and the department will fully cooperate with their investigations. The department strongly condemns the alleged conduct of the former educator, and we wish the principal a speedy recovery.&#8221; &#8220;The former educator was investigated for fraudulent qualification in 2014 and dismissed in 2015,&#8221; said Bodibe. &#8220;The department has provided counselling to all the affected staff and learners at the school, and exams scheduled for today were suspended indefinitely. We will closely monitor the situation and ensure the smooth running of the school.&#8221; The attack has raised concerns about safety at public schools in this country, as it happened on the school premises. The issue of fraudulent qualifications has also came under spotlight. Lesufi said it was embarrassing the teacher had been in the school with fake qualifications even before the principal came in. The culprit was arrested, and he is still in custody. &#8211; Caxton News Service