The Democratic Alliance (DA) says it will be challenging President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s application to review former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela&#8217;s State Capture report. ALSO READ: DA laments revised outlook by Fitch Ratings On Friday DA leader Mmusi Maimane accused Zuma in a statement of disrespecting the country s courts to avoid accountability. The Democratic Alliance notes the announcement by the Presidency that Jacob Zuma will be taking the State of Capture report on judicial review. We will therefore be filing papers to oppose President Zuma&#8217;s application to review the remedial action required by the report. While President Zuma is operating within the parameters of the law by taking the report on judicial review, we must remember that he has a long history of using the courts, which he has no respect for, to delay being held accountable for his acts of corruption. Maimane said. Zuma had considered and also sought legal advice on the contents of the report, as well as the remedial action to be taken, the Presidency said on Friday in announcing his intention to take the report on review. Madonsela recommended that Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng should appoint a judge to head a commission of inquiry to further probe allegations of state capture by Zuma s close friends, the Gupta family, accused of having undue influence over him regarding the appointment of Cabinet ministers and boards members of state-owned companies. Maimane said it was clear that the Zuma wants to use the courts to buy himself time while he plots his next move in order to again avoid facing the music. We will not allow him to get out of this crisis of his own making. President Zuma must be made to fund his own litigation instead of using public money for his personal benefit and political machinations, he said. ALSO READ: United effort needed to deliver on priorities, says National Treasury Maimane also said the president s decision to challenge the report along with his comments he made in Parliament this week, show that Zuma has no intention of complying with the remedial action recommended by Madonsela. The ANC and Jacob Zuma have no interest in accountability or advancing the hopes of the people of South Africa. Their only interest is ensuring that &#8216;Number 1&#8217; stays out of jail for his corrupt activities and that he lives in comfort while nine million people suffer without work. The DA will continue to fight corruption and work to ensure that we build a better South Africa, Maimane said.