There are times when I wish I was R.Kelly, just so that I can do what his song says: turn back the hands of time. There are things that I think need to be eradicated from our society, as they serve no use to us at all. The first one is the selfie, and this scourge is so bad it even has an accessory called a selfie stick. Whoever looked at themselves and decided to turn their phone s camera lens towards them really did a number on us. Everywhere we go, there are people causing traffic jams, blocking staircases in buildings and some cannot breathe without pausing, checking the background and then snapping away. It is just getting worse as people are taking selfies during the most inappropriate times and places. Funerals, religious events, intimate moments (yes, let your mind go the gutter as I am referring to that thang as Lauryn Hill sang about) and everything else is not immune to this practice. The second one has to do with time. Whose bright idea was it to come up with a concept that encourages people to be late? So most of us struggle when it comes to punctuality and someone thought it would be clever to say: be there at 7 for 7:30 . Really? What does that even mean? This is even worse than the Afrikaans ja nee! . So if an invite states that you should arrive at 7 for 7:30, what time do you need to be there? This is thoroughly confusing for all those involved. There are always those who normally arrive a few minutes before the start of an event, so what time must they get there? Then there are those who are exactly on time, and they are followed by those who are always late. At this point, no one know is they are early, on time or late! Can we please make up our minds and stick to a time! Last but not least is the ability to take a screenshot on a phone. I was fine with smartphones being able to do absolutely everything under the sun, until some bright spark thought it would be cool to add this feature as well. Why, oh why do we need to take screenshots? Do you know how many people have been in trouble because of this? Now people cannot even have a conversation without being scared that it will be screen-grabbed and shared with the whole world. No! No! No! &nbsp;