At least three years have gone by since the medical Innovation Bill was submitted to parliament by the late Mario Ambrosini. Yesterday during parliament s portfolio committee on health, it was announced that the department of health would soon regulate access to medicinal cannabis, Highway Mail reports. This decision came after a two-year process of deliberations, investigation and research, prompted by the Medical Innovation Bill. This was seen as a victory by the Inkatha Freedom Party for every South African. The party applauded the move, as it would provide help to those with HIV/Aids, severe chronic pain, severe muscle spams or severe seizures where other treatment options have failed or have intolerable side effects. The IFP s chief whip in parliament, Narend Singh, lauded this announcement as a victory for his late colleague, Dr Mario Oriani-Ambrosini, who introduced the Medical Innovation Bill (MIB) in the midst of his own fight with terminal cancer. Even the DA got in on the action. We welcome the progressive path that the department has taken on this issue and urge the minister of health to sign off on the new regulations so that the process can be opened up to public comment. &#8220;The faster this process can be undertaken, the quicker these products can be made available to those who need it. This will ultimately give patients and their healthcare providers greater choice in treating certain difficult conditions through the use of safe, medicinal cannabis. READ MORE: Medicinal marijuana still a pipe dream Following Oriani-Ambrosini s death in 2014, Singh then reintroduced the MIB to ensure that this vital issue would stay on the table. Speaking after the announcement by the Medicines Control Council and the department of health in committee on November 23, Singh said: This heralds a great step forward for public access and research into the use of medicinal cannabis. I feel a great sense of relief. I must thank the department for taking up this issue with such passionate concern for our people. What matters now is that the department ensures that access to medicinal cannabis will not be restricted to the rich, but that anyone who needs it will be able to afford it. The department has indicated that the new regulatory framework could be available as early as the end of January 2017 for stakeholder comment and could be implemented by April 2017. Inspired by the sense of unity within the committee, Singh said: Today, I saw MPs across the political spectrum join together for the common good of all South Africans. The introduction of Dr Oriani-Ambrosini s Bill in 2014 galvanised a concerted effort by all stakeholders, the result being that we will shortly have a working blueprint and regulatory framework for access to medicinal cannabis in South Africa. We look forward to seeing that happen. &#8211; Caxton News Service