Chief executive officer (CEO) of state-owned power utility Eskom Brian Molefe resigned on Friday afternoon. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe confirmed that Molefe had quit in a series of tweets posted today on the social network. &#8220;Eskom CEO Brian Molefe today announced that he&#8217;ll voluntarily step down from Eskom with effect from 1 January 2017. &#8220;Mr Molefe says he&#8217;ll take take time off to reflect before deciding on his next career move. Also read: Good riddance, Brian Molefe, says Floyd Shivambu &#8220;Mr Molefe says stepping down was not an act of admission of wrongdoing on his part.&#8221; Molefe was implicated as leading the Eskom board when it gave the Gupta-owned Tegeta a deal involving hundreds of millions prepaid into its account, without following proper tender procedures. He wept at the press conference when discussing the matter last month. Eskom said on Friday it would soon be announcing interim leadership arrangements once the board agrees with Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown following the abrupt resignation of Molefe. Eskom to appoint interim leadership In a statement, Eskom said Molefe s decision was regrettable but understandable . In an effort to clear his name following the release of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela s report on her observations about the so-called state capture, Mr Molefe has decided to voluntarily step down to reflect and take time off, Eskom said. It said Molefe and his executive management team had turned around the state-owned power utility s operational and financial performance, resulting in 15 months of no load-shedding, since joining the company in April 2015. The improved performance of the power generating units coupled with additional capacity from some of our new build projects has resulted in a stable power system, with excess capacity being exported to neighbouring states. The company s liquidity position has also improved significantly, with liquid assets increasing by 81.6 percent from R24.1 billion a year ago, to R43.8 billion at 30 September 2016. ALSO READ: DA to lay charges against Eskom&#8217;s Brian Molefe after his resignation Eskom said thanks to Molefe s leadership skills, the group now had access to adequate resources and facilities to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future. The board thanked Molefe for his relentless dedication to turning Eskom around, solidifying a capable executive team and putting it on a sound growth trajectory . Public Enterprises Minister saddened by Eskom CEO resignation Meanwhile, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown on Friday said she was saddened by Molefe&#8217;s resignation, adding that she would work closely with the utility s board to ensure stability. I am saddened by the announcement of Mr Molefe s resignation. However, I do respect his decision to do so, Brown said in a statement. Mr Molefe has been instrumental in developing Eskom s turnaround strategy which is beginning to yield positive results and it is disappointing that he will not be present to see it to complete fruition. Brown said Molefe was leaving Eskom at a time when the company s mid-term results showed an improvement. I want to reassure the country that as shareholder representative, I will work closely with the board to ensure that the company remains stable, Brown said. I am confident that Mr Molefe leaves a strong executive team in place to continue to deliver on Eskom s mandate and implementation of the turn-around strategy. Read the full statement below: -Additional reporting by African News Agency