We ve all seen it in some form: the sunny, pristine untouched beaches; the sun-kissed people frolicking about in the ads, sipping long cocktails. Like many people do, you scan the ad and build a whole holiday around it in your mind for a brief second or two. Then your eyes roll down to the hotel price and that holiday remains just a fantasy. There is nothing I hate more than when places and airlines give you a starting price with from in front of it. To me that immediately says this is the bare bones price without all the add-ons, some which you ll probably need. Who wouldn t want to stay in a fancy hotel for a bargain price? The allure is there. People loooove sharing Instagram shots of their awesome accommodation to make those at home jealous. But when you re well travelled, you realise even though there are five-star resorts, you d rather spend your money on something other than accommodation. All I really want is a good Wi-Fi connection, cleanliness, safety and privacy. I m not too concerned about the thread count of the sheets or mini bar. We spend far too much on a nice room, which eats so much into the budget that you can t go on that shopping spree or paragliding as planned. It s not always easy to find the right accommodation. With so many websites offering holiday space, and some having conflicting reviews of the same place, it can all be confusing. First-world travellers seem to revel in the rustic charm of a grass hut with a toilet that still uses the bucket system and the sound of the wild outside. I m really not one of those people. If you, dear reader, are, good for you. I like my walls with no gaps and made preferably with concrete. I m not keen to share my room with animals. Waking up to a snake, rat, frog, giant lizard, scorpion in my shoe is really not my idea of a fun holiday. Neither is smacking my face every five minutes to get rid of a mosquito. If you take the time to scour the websites you will find accommodation that works for you and doesn t break the bank. My rule of thumb is to avoid places that are lower than two-and-a-half-star. I also won t look at a place if the peer review is not 7 or higher. Even then I need at least 10 recent reviews. It sounds ludicrous, but I have stayed at some awful places during my travels. I ve even forked out $50 a night for what was essentially a shack on a pristine beach. Find a list of websites that work for you. Don t write off hostels that offer private rooms without en-suite bathrooms. Some are great and not full of drunken 20-year olds. Use booking sites to find accommodation, then go to the websites of the place you re interested in and book directly. You ll be surprised how much that simple move can save you. I ve met many travellers who also just like to go to a busy tourist hub and walk from place to place to find accommodation. That doesn t work for me. I like to know exactly where I m going. Whatever you do don t let that from bit put you off. The perfect accommodation really is just an internet search away.