Until last weekend, no one in Mwisho a Lami had any idea that the US was having a General Election. But come Sunday evening, the entire Mwisho wa Lami and its environs was abuzz with news of the elections, and many of us had already taken sides.It all started when Kizito, a Deputy HM like me who plies his trade in a neighbouring school, arrived at Hitler s with a newspaper that had a lot of information about the US elections.TRUMP WHO?Kwame tried to explain the difference between US and UK on one hand and America and Britain on the other but it was quite confusing. Rasto asked him if both counties spoke English and once he answered in the affirmative, the wazees settled the matter it was the same country! Is Hillary the wife of Clinton, the former president? asked Rasto to which Kwame agreed. Obama is supporting Hillary so she will win, I started. Don t play with Obama. Alphayo and Rasto were still not convinced. Ningekuwa Hillary ningejaribu Women Rep ya America yote said Rasto. But President No! hatapita. In the end, we decided to bet. Kizito, Kwame and I were rooting for Hillary while Rasto, Alphayo, Saphire and Nyayo were supporting Trump.None of us had even heard of him, let alone that name. Huyo ndio mwanaume, said Rasto when he was shown a photo of Trump.We agreed on the bet. The losing team would buy alcohol for the other, suggested Saphire. They agreed but insisted that since our side had more working class people, we would buy them at Cosmos immediately the results were announced.We knew that the elections would be on Tuesday and so we all converged at Hitler s on Tuesday evening. Hitler s had brought a TV and using some wires, stole electricity from the school which he used to power the TV. It was a good strategy and a lot of people, particularly teachers, came from far and wide to have a drink as they watched TV.We watched local stations but they once in a while showed the US elections.We were at Hitler s until very late. By 10 pm, there were no results. The local stations were showing CNN but there the wazungus were just talking and talking so we asked Hitler to put for us a Nigerian movie. After consulting with my brother Pius in Nairobi, he told me that the results would be almost ready early the next day. If you wake up early at 5am, you will see the results live live. We all agreed to go home and be at Hitler s very early at 5am.I set the alarm at 5am but you do not need a degree to know that I can t wake up at 5am. I postponed to 6am then 7am. The results would still be the same even if I went early or late, I said to myself.When I arrived at Hitler s at 7am, I only found Rasto, Alphayo and Nyayo. There was also Saphire, but he was still drunk and asleep in Hitler s sitting room under the table. Hitler had refused to switch on the TV unless we had people drinking. I bought everyone a glass and Hitler switched on the TV. Trump, or Trumpet as they called him, was in the lead, but the numbers looked strange.Kizito joined us shortly and tried to explain the American voting system and something about a college of elections but no one was following especially because he too did not understand it well.What mattered was that Trump was leading, and that alcohol was flowing.Rather than ordering in glasses, Kizito bought a full kibuyu allowing people to take from the source in quantities they wanted.