The notion that Uber in London is a mosaic of 30 000 small businesses linked by a common platform is, to our minds, faintly ridiculous , said one of the judges on the employment tribunal. So the tribunal ruled that Uber s 30 000 drivers in London were actually employees, and therefore entitled to be paid the minimum wage, to be given sick pay and even to have paid holidays. Uber appealed the ruling because it would wreck its business model in the UK and, if the example spreads, worldwide. But it was only a temporary victory for workers rights, because just as the real jobs have been replaced by fake freelance jobs like Uber that strip people of their old legal protections, so the freelance driving gigs will soon be replaced by no jobs at all. The first self-driving cars are already on the roads. Automation, in the form of artificial intelligence, will probably abolish almost all the driving jobs in the next 20 years. In Britain alone, that means 400 000 jobs driving big trucks and almost 300 000 licensed taxi drivers. (The jobs driving delivery vans will last a little longer.) Scale it up to the size of the US, and that s about 4 million more jobs gone, not to foreign competition and outsourcing , but just to technological change. ALSO READ: Sometimes Trump is right There is a message here for the angry people who voted for Brexit in Britain; who will vote for Donald Trump next week in the US; who will vote for Marine Le Pen and the National Front in France next April. They are angry because the secure jobs and Monday 12 7 November 2016 decent living standards they enjoyed in the latter half of the 20th century are gone. Something must be done about it, but the jobs are not coming back. This is a global economic transformation comparable to the industrial revolution, when entire populations went from overwhelmingly rural to overwhelmingly urban in only two generations. This time, the transformation is from a full-employment economy to one of abundance that only requires a fraction of the population to work. The industrial revolution was an angry, turbulent time, with urban uprisings and class warfare. We ll be lucky if the damage this time is limited to demagogues such as Donald Trump, who pander to the fear and anger of the newly displaced and not just the displaced of the old working class, but the growing numbers of middle-class people who are also being displaced by machines. They are not right-wing in the traditional sense, although many have become more socially conservative and some openly racist as their panic rises. Populist is a much better word: they hate the changes and the elites who seem untouched by them, and they want their old jobs and self-respect back. But the old jobs are not coming back, and even populist politics cannot resurrect them. This is not a disaster, it s a process. Last time it took over a century of mass misery and occasional mass bloodshed to get through it. But in the end, most people were living much longer, healthier, more interesting lives than their peasant ancestors. We should try to do it a lot better and quicker this time. Gwynne Dyer