As an oncologist, I have met people who are curious about how cancer develops in an individual. There were cases of people who didn t have any particular risk factors; they were not smokers, didn t take alcohol and they were exercising regularly, but, they ended up with the disease.Now, some people ask: Was it by bad luck that someone got it? Unfortunately, others have gone ahead to ask: Are there people who are born to have cancer? The question on the development of cancer is constantly being thrown at health experts and scientists across the world. People are simply scared of the deadly malady.In trying to find out the secret, many have developed their own philosophies and understanding of the disease. There is a feeling that a cancer diagnosis is a death sentence.In cancerology, which in recent times is known as oncology, we refer to cancer as a large group of diseases that can affect any part of the body. This group of diseases develops from a single cell and through a multistage process to become a cancer.Here is the thing. Unlike in a normal cell, a cancer-cell is the one which turned bad and is now incapable of responding to the normal commands of the body. Cancer cells grow rapidly and out of control. They invade other nearby organs and even travel to far distant parts of the body.In essence, a cancer acts on its own and fights to take over at the expense of the patient s normal functioning of the body.Now, let s reflect on the causes of cancer. The knowledge that exists today is that there is an interaction between the body s genetic makeup and external factors that the body might have been exposed to.The mention of genetics in this case has made many believe that there is nothing they can do about cancer and their ancestors already decided their fate. This idea of bad luck was even more talked about in 2015 after a research group from John Hopkins published a paper that many media houses interpreted as saying 2/3 of cancers are due to bad luck. This notion of bad luck may not hold water because; for a cancer to develop, external factors have to be factored in.They can be physical, biological or chemical leading to a change in behavior of a cell at the point of division. During cell division, mistakes can occur though the body has its own ways to repair these mistakes.When it fails, we get cancer and since the division happens throughout life, the longer we live the more chances the mistakes might occur. So cancer is generally a disease of the elderly, making age a risk factor.Appreciating the role of genetics in the development of cancer, however, does not reduce the importance of the environment in which these genes are exposed to. If the genes interact with the environment they can cause the division to speed up, creating even more chances for mistakes to be made. Such agents can be viruses, toxins, radiation, tobacco and many others.It would be wise to stop blaming our forefathers for the cancers and even when we do so, we should bear in mind that we can turn around the current incidence of cancer if we pay attention to the environment that we live in.The author is an Oncologist based at Muhimbili National Hospital.