South African billionaire businessman Johann Rupert has thanked his biggest detractor Julius Malema, the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), for making him relevant again because of his previous allegations that Rupert had captured the country s major political parties and state institutions. ALSO READ: Mabala Noise music is proper Malema Speaking at the 2016 Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Awards in Sandton on Tuesday night, Rupert said Malema s narratives had rescued him from becoming totally irrelevant. I have to thank Mr Julius Malema because if it hadn t been for his narratives, I was in danger of becoming totally irrelevant. You guys [the media] had forgotten about us. Firstly, I don t live in Stellenbosch I don t know how I can be part of the Stellenbosch mafia; we live in Somerset West. And I haven t been given an award in so long until Mr Malema and he pointed out to me that I was running the ANC, the DA, Sars [SA Revenue Service], by the way that would get me in trouble especially recently. Oh! and I forgot the central bank [South African Reserve Bank] Rupert said to laughter from the audience. In 2014, Malema accused the chairperson of Richemont, a Swiss-based luxury-goods company, and South Africa-based Remgro, of being behind legal charges instituted by Sars against Malema for failing to submit tax returns between 2006 and 2010. The tax-collection agency at the time said Malema owned the taxman R16 million plus interest for the four-year period. He told a group of supporters at a rally in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, in March 2014, that Rupert and friends controlled the ANC and the DA. Malema also accused the business tycoon of ordering the ANC top leadership to deal with him when he was the president of the ANC Youth League. ALSO READ: Mcebo Dlamini granted R2k bail Rupert seems to have buried the hatchet between himself and Malema, but he had a warning for him should he continue maligning his name. I did send him a text message through a friend that, if he doesn t stop lying about me, I m gonna tell the world that I actually do give him money. All I have to do is to take the text out, then make it look like it was an accidental direct message and lie. All I have to say is: I ve met you, I like you, and I m actually backing you. So stop lying about me, and I won t lie about our relationship. I ve never met you, but I promise you, two can play the game, he said. #Malema: When we were in the ANCYL, Johan Rupert said we are a like a mosquito in a tent and Zuma became a Doom that killed the mosquito &mdash; EFF Official Account (@EFFSouthAfrica) March 15, 2014