Paul, in his 20s, dropped out of secondary school and is currently engaged in small business. He wants to grow his business but he lacks capital. He does not qualify for a bank loan because his company is not registered. But thanks to his colleagues in Mpwapwa where he lives, Paul will soon be able to get some credit.Wearing a violet t-shirt, blue jeans and sandals, Paul is sitting on a blue chair in front of a brown table, facing the chairwoman of a Youth Saving and Lending Association (YSLA) and two young men - sitting on each side of the chairwoman. I want to buy shares and become part of the group, he tells them.After answering some questions about his business, he is told that he is supposed to buy a share of Sh 5,000 every week. Soon, he will be allowed to ask for a loan, something that would never happen if Paul approached a bank. Instead, he has just become a member of the youth saving and lending association in Mpwapwa town, some 100 kilometres outside of Dodoma.With every share, he empowers himself a little bit more to grow his own business bigger and eventually faster, as he is now allowed to access loans. Although the amount of money is limited and although he would have to pay back within four months, including an interest of 10% on the total capital, he is better off.The almost forgotten generationPaul lives in the Central Corridor - which includes Morogoro, Manyara, Singida, Dodoma, Shinyanga, Tabora and Simiyu regions. Paul is one of the many young men and women, who can not grow their businesses because they are not able to access capital. But there are even more challenges than just lacking access to finance. And it is youth between 25 and 34 years that are hit the hardest, as a study from Development Pioneer Consultants (DPC) in 2014 revealed.The authors assessed visions of opportunities and bottlenecks for youth in rural Tanzania and figured out that the youngest in the statistics - those between 16 and 24 - do more likely have some secondary education or have completed secondary education than their older peers aged 25 to 34 years and the whole adult population. In addition, the proportion of population with primary and less education is highest in Central Corridor. And it became eventually worse, as most of those young people between 25 and 34 were either due to lack of money or due to the missing Form IV, V or VI certificates not allowed to attend any vocational training offered by government.For the majority of the people, working in small-scale businesses as family-farming, petty trade and transportation services are the only ways to earn some money. But as Paul and his colleagues never had the chance to attend a proper business-training, they are likely to run unprofitable businesses with no real perspective, but to migrate to Dar es Salaam or another city as soon as they could afford the ticket.But Moses, also in his 20s wants to stay in Nikulabi. Like paul, he too left school early and was for a long time stuck in unprofitable business. Having learnt how to breed chicken, he started to raise chicken in his sleeping-room. Instead of waiting, he decided to move forward, even if the training was not yet completed. In another room, he installed a breeding-box for the eggs, where he controls the temperature and from time to time the progress of the growing chicken-embryos. He learnt how to improve his work step by step and how to keep records of the chicken sold, which is the first prerequisite to success. Moses is another participant of OYE-project and lives in a simple house at the outskirts of Dodoma.OYE stands for Opportunities for Youth Employment and is a multinational project, funded by the Mastercard Foundation and implemented by SNV in Rwanda, Mozambique and Tanzania. The USD 4.7m-contribution of Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation on the other hand is solely reserved for activities in the Central Corridor, where SNV should reach 6,500 people aged between 18 and 30 years. Basically OYE is offering the rural youth a perspective in self-employment. As long as they are willing to conquer a private business adventure, most probably they will earn more.People, who do not feel comfortable with the market, may be left behind. For the others, OYE offers first a basic life skills training. There, we teach them, what a professional businessman or -woman should do, Programme Manager Corjan Van der Jagt explains. It is all about discipline and work-ethics like being on time, fulfilling contracts as agreed on etc.Second, they get a technical skills training. According to the interests, one can choose between three main branches; agriculture, renewable energies and water and sanitation. SNV has been working in the Central Corridor since the beginning of 2016. As the 6,500 youth shall be trained in three intakes within the next 20 Months, the first third of youth is now finishing the training.Over the top We have seen with the first intake of 2,255 young people in the region, that the most interest is in the areas of agriculture and renewable energies, Corjan says. Like Moses, the participants are enabled to produce and sell their products with a better quality and for a better price, resulting in a fair profit-margin.In the third place, the beneficiaries are allowed to attend an advanced business-skills training. It is for those who do have more interest or haveshown that they are capable to go further than just producing something. In the advanced training, the youth are learning how to grow a business. And they learn how to use a saving-and-lending-scheme, which is one important source for capital, as the one that Paul in Mpwapwa will soon qualify for.So far, SNV and its local service-providers have trained 2,144 people in the basic life-skills; 2,045 in technical skills and some 977 got already an advanced business-skill training. And the organisation did not expect such a positive feedback from youth. Especially for the advanced business skills-training, we did not expect that many of the participants would show such a strong interest, Corjan says. And there is another thing, that was surprising: The pace of youth.Instead of waiting for the next step in the programme, most of them did implement the new skills instantly to their other businesses they are running. 24-year- old Eva for instance is producing improved cooking stoves with her group. In former times, she never learned how to stand on her own feet. She was doing unprofitable business, petty trade and the like. But after being taught what it meant to calculate prices properly, she was able to get a step forward, even without having to wait for the stove-business to take off.And in Nikulabi, a small shop has emerged on the street. It is built from branches from old trees, some simple wooden panels and has a tin-roof. Inside, one may either charge his mobile-phone or buy simple solar-lamps. Or one can look for an installation based on solar energy. In the first four weeks, the group had sold seven lamps already, which they got from the companies on credit while being allowed to pay for them later. I was sitting on the street and did not know, what I could do. Now, through the training, I have gained some knowledge and at least a glimpse of what I am capable of doing, says Eva. It seems, that with OYE some people of the hopeless generation are allowed to have hope, to dream and to thrive, as they are a little bit more enabled to work towards their own aspirations and dreams.Email: hansjuerg.jaeger@gmail.com