Confirmation by the provincial traffic police that Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema and his driver tried to make a run for it Fast &amp; Furious style after being clocked doing 187km/h on their way to court on Monday must make one ask renewed and ever more serious questions about the man. Only a fool would accept that the driver is to blame for any of this. That poor man was obviously just following instructions from his boss, who must have been the one to instruct him to drive so fast, and Malema must surely have also told him to try to escape arrest after a traffic officer attempted to get them to pull over. ALSO READ: Malema&#8217;s driver DID try to flee the traffic cops The cops had to chase them for 100km before Julius &#8220;Vin Diesel&#8221; Malema could finally be stopped and his hapless driver arrested in the one-horse farming town of Ventersburg, where Malema took the wheel and drove himself to court in Bloemfontein. He was facing charges in the country&#8217;s judicial capital because, no matter which way you spin it, he had broken the law by inciting his followers to occupy whatever land takes their fancy. The EFF would like to spin the thing in such a way as to make out that this concept of respecting property rights is nothing more than an apartheid leftover, but try finding any democratic country anywhere on earth where it&#8217;s okay to just help yourself to other people&#8217;s things because you happen to believe you are more entitled to it than they are. Yes, South Africa has a troubled history and the issue of land reform is one that needs to be taken seriously, along with many of the other legacies of apartheid, but unleashing anarchy on property rights is not the answer. Just to prove how little regard Malema has for the constitution and rule of law, he stood outside the very court where he had faced charges of incitement and proceeded to incite people even more. For all Malema&#8217;s grandstanding against President Jacob Zuma being a &#8220;thief&#8221; and an illegitimate president who violated the constitution, Malema obviously has the potential to be a hundredfold worse. Talking about the virtues of the constitution merely serves a short-term goal for him, to be able to turn the knife as much as possible in Zuma&#8217;s side. To think, though, that he cares a jot more for the constitution as he does for speed-limit signs is foolish. The EFF has made a mockery of the rules governing parliament and we cheer them on because we don&#8217;t like Zuma. They and their supporters go on the rampage in Tshwane, looting every bottle store they pass, and little gets said because, hey, we really don&#8217;t like Zuma. Malema subtly threatens genocide and we are unsure what to do because he&#8217;s helping the DA, right, and he&#8217;s against Zuma, right? It&#8217;s always so impressive to hear EFF members, including their leader, reciting sections of the constitution and our various acts from memory. They are charismatic and compelling. You&#8217;d almost think people who apparently know our laws so well must have some regard for them. But let&#8217;s not kid ourselves. Malema is a man who views the world as a place that must bend to his will, and that is the only law that matters to him. If he ever eventually does get prosecuted on something, if something finally sticks, we already know he will milk it for all it&#8217;s worth and try to be a martyr for the cause of the dispossessed and downtrodden. It will be a case of painting the law itself as the ultimate enemy and South Africa will have to decide what it likes more: being governed by pre-agreed rules, or being ruled over by whatever fancy happens to enter the mind of Julius Malema and which side of the bed he got out of that morning. Charles Cilliers, Citizen.co.za digital editor