As the process is under way for the proposed riverine rehabilitation of certain water management units in the City of Johannesburg, a wetlands specialist questions why the City is not prioritising the rehabilitation of the Queens wetland in Bruma, east of Johannesburg. ALSO READ: Process to rehabilitate Joburg&#8217;s watercourses under way Board member of The South African Wetland Society, Paul Fairall said the artificial Queens wetland at Bruma Lake needed to be rebuilt as, at present, it was overgrown with alien invasive plants Wattle trees and Spanish reeds that inhibited the function of the wetland. He explained that work was undertaken to prepare the wetland in 2012 and, in the feasibility study he had written, Fairall said he advised that the small clump of the alien invasive plants needed to be removed. However, he said the contractor bulldozed the site, dispersing the alien invasive seeds. He firmly stated that &#8220;absolutely no maintenance&#8221; had taken place on the site since then, leaving the wetland overgrown with the invasive seeds polluting the Jukskei River. &#8220;Whatever man builds needs to be maintained. Now the wetland can&#8217;t just be cleaned up, it needs to be rebuilt,&#8221; said Fairall, who believed the state of the wetland at present was in contradiction of the National Environmental Management Act, National Water Act and Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act. Nthatisi Modingoane, spokesperson for the City of Johannesburg, said the City acknowledged the current state of the wetland did not comply with the environmental legislation and agreed that alien invasive plants did impact the functionality of the wetland, but said work had been undertaken during the 2014/2015 financial year. &#8220;During the 2014/2015 financial year, a service provider was appointed to clear the alien invasive plants. Parallel to the clearance of the alien invasive plants, another service provider was appointed to undertake the Wetland Management Plan as per the requirements of the environmental authorisation,&#8221; said Modingoane, adding that the plan identified a need to remove alien invasive plants, erosion control and, on certain parts, to do hard and soft engineering. &#8220;The City has a monthly river monitoring program to test the quality of the water upstream and downstream of the wetland,&#8221; Modingoane added. However, Fairall strongly disputed that the wetland had been maintained, stating that &#8220;not one hour of maintenance has been spent on the wetland&#8221; and that he and his colleague regularly inspected the site, and he further stated he had never been informed of the management plan. He did acknowledge that grasscutting and weeding had been done on the other side of the river. Modingoane added that more resources would be spent during the 2016/2017 financial year to rehabilitate the wetland. &#8220;The rehabilitation/management plan will be undertaken during the dry season,&#8221; Modingoane said. Fairall said he had also been informed of this but added he had been repeatedly told this since 2013. Modingoane explained the wetland had not been included in the new riverine remediation project, as it only required an perational budget to maintain the infrastructure after capital budget had been spent on it during the 2012/2013 financial year. Addressing how Bruma Lake was affected by the current state of the wetland, Modingoane said flows to the Queens wetland were &#8220;very low&#8221; to conclude that the impact was significant to Bruma Lake. &#8220;Queens wetland was constructed to take a certain amount of water from the Jukskei River, which is a quarter of the flow, in order to treat some of the flow in the river. To divert the entire flow of Jukskei River into Queens wetland was going to subject it to erosion and failure of not having enough contact time to treat or reduce some of the pollutant load from the river. That would have rendered it more dysfunctional as compared to the current state,&#8221; he said. Fairall said if the function of the wetland was remediated, the wetland would assist in removing a vast amount of pollution from the Jukskei River into the Bruma precinct. Caxton News Service