The provincial departments of health and education will receive additional R143 million and R260 million respectively through the medium term budget adjustment to fix infrastructure and cover salaries and wages. Finance MEC Barbara Creecy delivered her Medium Term Budget Policy Statement (MTBPS) in the Gauteng legislature on Tuesday. The 143.7 million for the department of health will also cover the higher than anticipated wage agreement cost for employees. A R33.8 million roll-over budget will be used to complete projects at Dr George Mukhari and Charlotte Maxeke hospitals in Tshwane. R15 million will be used to pay stipends to community healthcare workers taking care of HIV /Aids and TB patients. For education, R155 million from the R260 million adjustment budget will be allocated fill critical vacant posts and for the appointment of teachers to cater for the anticipated increase in learner enrolment in 2017. At least R105 million will support Gauteng schools to pay for municipal services, such as the increased electricity tariff. Other departments such as the cooperative governance and traditional affairs will receive R70 million R20 million of this amount will be used to assist families affected by recent flash floods in the province, said Creecy. R14.5 million will assist the Emfuleni Local Municipality prevent sewerage spills into our river system; R20 million will help the municipality of Merafong to begin repairs to the water pipeline for Khutsong Extension 4 and 5 and Welverdiend damaged by a sinkhole, said Creecy. In addition, the department receives a rollover of R27.7 million to fund the Provincial Disaster Management Centre. The human settlements department will get R50 million to speed up the issuing of title deeds, while the department of community safety will receive R20 million for the anti-crime programme, the Memeza Community Alarm project for the elderly and child-headed households. Social development will receive R36.2 million to establish a new substance abuse treatment centre in Sedibeng region and further establish centres of excellence to train rehabilitated drug addicts. The provincial budget increased from R103.3 billion as tabled in March by almost R1.9 billion to R105.2 billion, said Creecy.