Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was adamant yesterday [Wednesday] that South Africa was committed to prosecuting human rights criminals. Answering questions on the country s exit from the International Criminal Court in the National Council of Provinces, Ramaphosa said he was certain there were would no backlash from the international community over South Africa s commitment to prosecuting human rights violators. The decisions that has been taken by the South African government should at all times seek to advance our international standing because in doing so we advance the interests of all South Africans. It would be of concern if through a decision that we may well have taken&#8230; we degrade the standing and the position of South Africa around the world, he said. South Africa came under fire from national courts and the ICC after it failed to arrest and even abetted Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir s escape from the country. Ramaphosa indicated that South Africa did not have to follow the prescripts of the international court as the country had its own laws to deal with human rights violators. We obviously have to deal with all these matters in terms of the laws that we have in our country principles we have embraced ourselves and clearly anyone who violates the rights of others and commits horrendous crimes should be brought to trial, he said. ALSO READ: DA demands answers from Zwane on new deputy director-general Questioned further by DA MP Jacques Julius asked why if, as Ramaphosa said, the country was serious about bringing criminals to book; it had let al-Bashir go. Al-Bashir is wanted to answer for human rights violations, war crimes and genocide. The matter is being given attention even as we speak, Ramaphosa said. South Africa was one of the first signatories to the Rome Statute governing the practices of the ICC but Ramaphosa said he didn t foresee any fallout with the international community. SA remains a member of good standing internationally we still have the level of respect and acceptance that we ve always had as we explain; people do understand.&#8221; It would be of concern if, through a decision that we may well have taken, we degrade the standing position of South Africa around the world. And taking this decision we have taken the trouble to explain to all and sundry [why we have withdrawn], said Ramaphosa.