A 32-year-old man believed to be from Johannesburg, who was the driver of the car that plunged down Chapman s Peak on the Hout Bay side, has been airlifted to hospital, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said on Monday. On Monday at 5.14am NSRI Hout Bay said in a statement that it had been alerted to the incident. Along with SA Police Services, Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services, WC Government Health EMS and CMR (Cape Medical Response), the NSRI responded to the accident scene at Chapman s Peak. On arrival on the scene, rescuers could not determine the location of the vehicle, which could not be seen over terrain and a steep cliff face of Chapman s Peak Drive, and NSRI Hout Bay duty crew launched the sea rescue craft Albie Matthews, said the NSRI. Chapman s Peak Drive was closed to traffic during the rescue operation. On arriving on the scene two NSRI rescue swimmers were deployed from the sea rescue craft on to the shoreline, where they located the vehicle approximately 50 metres from the water&#8217;s edge. There was no one inside the vehicle. During an ongoing search, a male was located by the NSRI rescue swimmers approximately a third of the way from the roadside, and it believed that the man had been ejected from the vehicle as it rolled over terrain and down the mountainside, said the NSRI. It was confirmed that the 32-year-old man, believed to be from Johannesburg and now working in Cape Town, was the only occupant of the vehicle. The NSRI said the man was found to be conscious and in a stable condition but suffering head injuries and cuts and bruises. The EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter was dispatched by Metro Control. EMS rescue paramedics descended to the scene from the roadway using high-angle safety ropes and rigging and the man was treated by rescue paramedics for his injuries and in a stable condition he was secured into a specialised stretcher and he was hoisted to the roadway by the Skymed rescue helicopter and he has been transported to hospital by EMS ambulance in a stable condition, said NSRI. Police have opened an investigation into the accident.