Absa Bank bona fides in closing the bank accounts of controversial businessman Fana Hlongwane and his companies in 2013 could not be questioned and the bank could not be forced to supply them with all documents relating to the decision, a high court judge has ruled. Hlongwane was embroiled in the arms deal scandal and fingers were also pointed at him as the alleged &#8220;fixer&#8221; who took Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas to meet members of the Gupta family when he was allegedly offered the post of Finance Minister. The banks subsequently also closed all accounts related to the Guptas. Also read: Guptas never offered Jonas finance minister post &#8211; Hlongwane Hlongwane and his companies lodged a complaint with the ombudsman for banking services seeking a reversal of the bank&#8217;s decision, but the ombudsman ruled that he could not find any maladministration on the part of Absa. He then lodged a request in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act for all records relating to the decision, including information relating to the Seriti commission&#8217;s investigation into the arms deal, which the bank refused as it could expose confidential information and its processes with regard to investigating and monitoring possible money laundering activities of their clients. Hlongwane then turned to the court for access to the documents, insisting Absa&#8217;s decision was unreasonable and unfair and he needed the information to properly consider the effect on his rights and the possibility of instituting legal action against Absa. Absa in turn maintained that in light of the revelations that Hlongwane was implicated in the arms procurement contracts, he had become a &#8220;high risk client&#8221; and exposed the bank to some risks relating to money laundering. The bank said it was required to spend additional resources to monitor him and that a business decision was made to terminate their relationship. Judge Nomonde Mngqibisa-Thusi dismissed Hlongwane&#8217;s application with costs. She said the bank had already provided some of the documents requested, but could not be expected to provide Hlongwane with information in a situation where he failed to explain which rights he and his companies wished to protect and the relevancy of the information they required for that purpose. She said it appeared Hlongwane and his companies might have been on a &#8220;fishing expedition&#8221; to find out what information the Seriti commission had on them and nothing stopped them from going directly to the commission. She said Absa had been entitled to terminate its relationship with Hlongwane and his entities when it became apparent that he had become a &#8220;politically exposed person&#8221; and that there was not only a commercial but also a reputational risk to it in keeping him and his entities as clients. The bank had no obligation to retain a client whose monitoring in terms of money laundering measures put in place would be more onerous when compared with the benefit, in terms of fees, it would receive from the client, she said. &#8220;I am satisfied that the overriding reason for the decision was business related and concerns about the risks involved,&#8221; the Judge added. Who is Hlongwane? He was named in former public protector Thuli Madonsela&#8217;s State of Capture report as sending her a letter in which he denied the Guptas had offered Jonas the post of finance minister and insisted a meeting he had set up with Jonas, the Guptas and President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s son Duduzane had been to sort out private issues between himself and Jonas. He was described in the report as an &#8220;uncle&#8221; to Duduzane, although he denied a close relationship with the president or a business relationship with the Guptas. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has launched legal proceedings for a declaratory order that he may not, by law, intervene in the decision by the country&#8217;s major banks to close the Gupta business accounts. The Seriti commission in April found there was nothing untoward in the arms deal, but constitutional rights bodies Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation have launched legal proceedings to set aside the Arms Procurement Commission&#8217;s findings.