It was around the year 2000, and a video showing a group of white police officers letting their dogs loose on three black Mozambicans came on the evening news. I was about eight or nine years old at the time and I remember sitting with my family, watching the German shepherds viciously ripping their teeth through the flesh of the undocumented immigrants as the officers laughed. I was terrified. I knew racism existed, even at that age. I had experienced and had been a victim of it countless times, but I had never before seen it like this. It looked just like the grainy black-and-white footage of apartheid cops brutalising black people, a time I had been told was supposedly all in the past. But there I was, a terrified little boy, watching these horrific scenes unfold on a television set that sat in our living room under a framed picture of Nelson Mandela. Cut to 2016 and a video of two white men forcing a black man into a coffin and threatening to set it alight shows up on my Facebook feed. The victim, Victor Rethabile Mlotshwa, is heard wailing throughout the ordeal, just like the Mozambicans in the training exercise video I d seen on the news 15+ years ago. But this time I wasn t scared, I was pissed. The story goes that the two men accused Mlotshwa of invading some farm land next to the Komati Power Station near to Middelburg in Mpumalanga on 17 August. He was then allegedly beaten, tied to a car and dragged on a gravel road. They then stopped in a secluded place where the video was taken. The two farmers, Willem Oosthuizen and Theo Martins Jackson, were later found and arrested, and will now remain in jail until their third court appearance in January after abandoning their bail application on Wednesday. Also Read: &#8216;We have to attack the enemy, which is racism&#8217; &#8211; UP student pastor During their appearance, crowds of people gathered outside the Middelburg Magistrates Court to protest against the cruel act. The anger felt by the gathered masses was real, but it was also politicised and misdirected by clumps of red, blue and yellow T-shirts. It had turned into a political circus in which Mlotshwa, dressed in ANC colours, was a willing participant. There will be those that say @Our_DA was not at #CoffinAssault case today. RETWEET this. We were there to fight racism! pic.twitter.com/nATecmHnIr &mdash; Xolani Zondo (@XondoZ12) November 16, 2016 #CoffinAssault Mlotshwa is up on #ANC&#39;s stage. #EFF on opposite end of the street. pic.twitter.com/jknM3s1fIr &mdash; Nickolaus Bauer (@NickolausBauer) November 16, 2016 We should be angry that people still think it is okay to violate and mistreat others in this way. Even if Mlotshwa had been, legally speaking, trespassing on private land, Oosthuizen and Martins had no reason to force Mlotshwa into a spare coffin they clearly had lying around somewhere. And we should be angry because they definitely would not have acted this barbarically towards an invader if Mlothswa was white. We should be angry at both the ANC and EFF for picketing outside the court, and then putting up two separate stages to address their respective supporters whose rage was all directed at the same exact issue. Surely fighting brutal acts of racism, or racism of any kind for that matter, should always trump politics and political finger-pointing. Also Read: Anti-racism week should be your concern We should be angry that this won t be the last incident of its kind and that we will probably forget all about it, at least until another more disturbing video surfaces on our Facebook and Twitter timelines. But that s only if the next bunch of perpetrators are arrogant enough and stupid enough to film their sadistic racial abuse. Most of all, we should be angry because nothing seems to have changed in South Africa: black people are still being humiliated and made the victims of contemptuous violence and forced, wailing, into coffins physically and metaphorically by racists who think themselves superior. They are the type of people who deserve to rot in jail. Courtesy of Connect Read more on Connect Also on Connect: Cassper cops his second Bentley You can now vote for the new Miss South Africa Frank Ocean boycotting Grammy Awards Mcebo Dlamini arrested again?