Donald Trump s ascendancy to the highest office in the US was a spectacular victory for people s democracy. Not only did he say he did not enter the race to lose , he campaigned against a behemoth of hostility from the media (who created him and then tried to destroy him once he decided to run for office), the political establishment, Wall Street and special interests. To quote Trump: I was never called a racist until I ran for president. Before that, politicians came cap in hand begging for money, showing how money and politics have become two sides of the same coin. Pre-election narratives reached junk status. I rejoiced in Trump s triumph because he blew the cover of the almighty crooked and prejudiced media. He called them out where they were openly partisan and dared to talk back in a society smothered in politeness but expert at backstabbing. Special interests became more exposed as Trump fought them one by one. Like a master chess player, he knocked them over one at a time. And the more he unmasked the hypocrisy and partisanship, the more the establishment attacked him, and the more voters were drawn to his side. This election also demonstrated the deeply flawed nature of polling, how samples are drawn, who draws them and how conventional methodologies of polling hardly hold water with social media. The platforms users, despite Facebook, Google and Twitter s pro-Hillary Clinton bias, demonstrated the power of citizen democracy. Politics is no longer as predictable as it once was. The pundits and chattering classes are not to be trusted. Prejudice trumped the need for thorough academic analysis, as the power of the movement swept the US. And the failure of media to conduct in-depth and honest reporting is an indictment. For example, few media outlets reported that Clinton had refused to do press conferences for more than 100 days; few reported on the Democratic national committee destabilisation campaign of Trump s rallies, led by convicted felon Robert Creamer. The media hated Clinton s crimes but preferred to sweep them under a carpet. That she lied repeatedly under oath about Benghazi, Libya, blaming it on an anti-Muslim video, when she had admitted to her daughter and the president of Egypt that it was al-Qaeda attacking the diplomat s compound, was one of her most egregious acts of oversight as secretary of state. The media ignored her catastrophic Libyan war. The book Clinton Cash, revealing Clinton s murky financial dealings with dictators, crooks and convicted felons, had been written well over a year ago, but the media ignored her shocking disclosures of illegal transactions as secretary of state. It was only when WikiLeaks recently exposed her masses of emails that media reluctantly went back to Peter Schweizer s book. The media are weighed in the balance and found wanting. They need an overhaul or a massive purge, because with both Brexit and the US election, we have seen that the Fourth Estate is not to be trusted. Fact-checkers are a joke and pollsters are off the wall. My experience of the media throughout this entire election is captured in Will Roger s statement: All I know is just what I read in the papers, and that s an alibi for ignorance. 