Traditionally, when there is no specialist to provide a medical specialist review for extended care, the patient is transferred to a different hospital. Most of the time, the transfer happens from rural to urban facilities.The introduction of telemedicine makes a huge difference. Now, there is no need to transfer the patient. The principle is simple - move the patient s information instead of the patient and the rest is done at the initial facility.Think of it this way, a doctor serving a patient in extreme remote area can consult medical specialists and other health consultants from a distant centre through either video conferencing or mobile phone regarding the management of that particular patient. And in the end, the patient get cured without being transferred.Yes, all that telemedicine requires is the exchange of information between distant practitioners through use of telecommunication devices.The exchanged information is important for diagnosis formulation, treatment and prevention of diseases and injuries, and research, all in the interest of improving the health of individuals and the community at large. This information is relayed via either wired or wireless infrastructure.All over the world, the use of telemedicine is growing rapidly. As per recent studies, the global telemedicine technologies market is estimated to grow at compound annual growth rate of 18.4 per cent from 2014 to 2020.A significant number of African countries continue to increasingly adopt telemedicine use in their contemporary healthcare systems. There are also a lot of telemedicine pilot projects.Numerous stakeholders are partnering with governments in efforts to utilize this potential to the fullest.In Tanzania, we have online telemedicine platform, ipath that connects doctors based in rural areas with other doctors within or outside the country.Tanzania Telemedicine Network based on ipath platform is composed of collaboration between Aga Khan Hospital in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (KCMC), The Swinfen Charitable Trust among many other hospitals.There is also Ocean Road Cancer Institute (ORCI); Telemedicine that is part of Pan-Africa e-Network project between India and African union and many other telemedicine projects operating in Tanzania.Why do we need telemedicine in our healthcare system?First of all, let us take a look of what is going on in our current healthcare system. Tanzanian healthcare system, like that of many African countries, is facing a lot of challenges.The lack of enough skilled healthcare workers is one of these challenges. There is acute shortage of healthcare workers and worse enough, even these existing labourers are unevenly concentrated in urban areas, leaving majority of Tanzanians who dwell in rural areas without reach of quality care. The current doctor to patient ratio is 1:25000 contrary to the WHO recommended ratio of 1:100.With this healthcare worker conundrum, telemedicine is viewed as the probable solution. A significant number of patients in extremely remote areas get an easy and quick access to specialist care indirectly.This means the quality of care is likely to be improved. Together with that, millions of money are being saved. Instead of using funds for travel, consultations are done through technological means. Time is also saved this way.To professional practitioners in rural areas, telemedicine is taken as a tool to keep them updated with new approaches in managing patients. Thus increasing their professional competences.The challengesThe adoption of telemedicine in our healthcare system isn t at the rate that is expected to be. The adoption and extension of telemedicine in remote areas is taking place at a slow rate due the challenges this technology is facing now.Telemedicine is expensive. This technology, like many other technologies, requires huge capital investment. Installation process and equipment used are very expensive. Connectivity and operation cost is also high. This becomes difficult for countries like Tanzania.There is greater risk of misdiagnosis in telemedicine. This is either due to poor quality of images exchanged or due to faults of technology itself.There is also the issue of security of medical information. There are a lot of cyber-attack cases being reported these days and an increased trend of cybercrimes.There is greater possibility that the information system can be hacked. This would lead to malicious use of the hacked data or medical information.Despite the challenges, if telemedicine is properly used, it could save millions of lives. And especially be a tool to cater for people who live in extremely remote areas who are desperately dreaming of quality healthcare. If the government makes this a priority, the challenges mentioned above can be overcome through strategic planning.