ANC national executive committee member Joel Netshitenzhe has called on party members to uphold the party s succession tradition, which decrees that a deputy president always succeeds the sitting president. Netshitenzhe was speaking at the party s two-day Economic Transformation Summit at the Hans Merensky Golf Club in Phalaborwa, Limpopo, over the weekend. It is the tradition of the ANC after all, he said. Why change it now after so many years? There is no hard and fast rule, but if people decide through the party s democratic processes not to go that route, they will have to explain why they are doing so, Netshitenzhe said. He accused the ANC Youth League, the Women s League and Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association of jumping the gun on the party s succession debate. The three groups have publicly thrown their weight behind outgoing chairperson of the African Union Commission Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. They know they are doing something wrong. Why they are doing it, I cannot tell, because the ANC has very clear processes on how nominations and ultimately elections should take place. The ANC is yet to open the succession debate. Netshitenzhe, who was the head of policy for nearly a decade under then president Thabo Mbeki, further warned that factionalism within the ANC was slowly, but surely, digging a grave for the party. He said factionalism was embedded within the party and that if something was not done about it, the ANC stood a chance of losing massive votes to opposition parties in 2019. The manifestation of factionalism doesn t seem to relate so much to substantive issues of policy; they relate to matters of self-interest of using the ANC as a stepping stone to get positions in government, Netshitenzhe said. He said factionalism within the ANC hampered the effectiveness of government be it at national, provincial or municipal level. The ANC, according to Netshitenzhe, did not lose votes in the August polls because of the EFF or the DA. He said it was simply because people did not turn out to the polls, with Limpopo and North West in particular performing dismally. If members allow the scourge of factionalisms to rear its ugly head, then the party will be captured before 2019. news@citizen.co.za