Dar es Salaam. By the end of last year, Tanzania was supposed to have reduced maternal mortality ratio (MMR) to 198 per 100,000 live births, down from 410 in 2013. But but the country s target nose-dived, raising questions among maternal health experts as to what were the stumbling blocks.With the current MMR statistics standing at 398 per 100,000 live births, maternal health stakeholders who spoke to The Citizen are optimistic that the ratio can be reduced further if only the government invested its efforts in financing the plans through strong political will and collaborations with the private sector. This, they say, is more sustainable than relying heavily on donor support.Dr Nguke Mwakatundu, a maternal health specialist from Dar es Salaam, believes there is no silver bullet that can bring down the menacing deaths. He sees a missing link between the government and maternal health stakeholders when it comes to implementing maternal health plans. (At this point), what is required is co-ordinated action between the government and NGOs. We have heard of cases where people are raising funds to purchase desks for schools. Such efforts can be replicated in maternal health strategies, he says.In an interview with The Citizen, Dr Mwakatundu, who is the executive director of a maternal health NGO, Thamini Uhai, was upbeat that the country could further cut down maternal mortality to about 292 per 100,000 live births by 2020, if the good plans set by the government to control maternal mortality, were well funded and fully implemented.Recently, the government embarked on an ambitious 2016-2020 National Strategic Plan for Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Health, with aims at reducing maternal mortality to 292 per 100,000 live births, and neonatal mortality rate from 21 to 16 per 1,000 live births and the under-five mortality from 54 to 40 per 1,000 live births.The strategy focuses on reducing maternal, newborn, child and adolescent morbidity and mortality. According to its report, the plans will be achieved by offering quality services, of equity, offered by skilled attendants, in enabling environment and in an integrated manner.But, according to Dr Mwakatundu, such plans may not materialise without having a clear source of funding. I really believe there has to be a strong campaign, to mobilise funds from the business sector and private individuals. The donor community might step in but cannot fund everything. We [stakeholders and the government] need to a have well sustained funding plan, he says.For Dr Sunday Dominico, a clinical director, the Thamini Uhai NGO is now looking into ways it can tap into the potential of local businessmen and stakeholders in the efforts to raise more funding for expanding the efforts to deal with maternal mortality.Since 2008, Thamini Uhai (formerly known as World Lung Foundation Tanzania) has been working to help reduce maternal and neonatal mortality in Tanzania through financial support from Bloomberg Philanthropies.But, according to Dr Dominico, the NGO is now embarking on plans to seek local funding, while maintaining international links with a global health initiative known as Vital Strategies in ensuring that their resolve to deal with maternal mortality is not frustrated by underfunding. We (Thamini Uhai) want more funding so that we can now increase our coverage of the maternal health efforts in aspects such as antenatal and postnatal care, he told The Citizen on the sidelines of an event that saw the rebranding of an international NGO, known as World Lung Foundation(WLF) to a locally registered entity, Thamini Uhai.Sandra Mullin, Senior vice president (Policy, Advocacy and Communication, Vital Strategies), said: Thamini Uhai will continue to work with its extensive network of partners in government, the health system and communities to deliver the systems, programs, expertise, facilities and communications that are improving the lives and life opportunities of so many Tanzanians. Despite achieving the MDG4 of reducing the under-five mortality rate from 166/ 1,000 live births in 1990 to 54 per 1,000 live births Tanzania still harbours a very high number of newborns and under-fives dying at 39,500 and 98,000 per year respectively. However, this reduction was insufficient for the country to attain the committed MDG 5 target of 193 per 100,000 live births by the year 2015.