Experts suggest that sports can change peoples lives. Through sports, children gain confidence giving them courage and focus. This was witnessed earlier this week at Tumbi Primary School in Kibaha, Coast Region during the final tournament of a football competition.About ten schools participated in the football tournament and four managed to enter into the finals.The event which started at around 10.00 am in the morning was graced by Republic of Korea Ambassador, Song Geum-Young. The ambassador hailed the finalists while encouraging them to balance hard work and games to achieve their goals. South Korean government will continue to support football teams in Tanzania. I am sure that you are the best players in Tanzania and you have to perform well in your studies too. Through sports you can build strong team work and share experiences, he urged.The ambassador also told the pupils to respect their parents and teachers to succeed in life. Before the match started, he gave presents to the four finalists.On his part, Kibaha Primary School head teacher, Lonjin Mnzava said football competition started last year and the school team has played 98 matches for eight months. At the end of the day, we will see who will win between Azimio Primary school and Mamlaka Primary School in the boys match, he said.Mr Mnzava thanked the South Korean government and Global Together organisation for sponsoring the teams.Azimio boys team beat their Mamalaka counterparts 3-1 while Jamhuri beat Kibaha 1-0 through a penalty in the girls category.Speaking to Young Citizen, Rashid Ramadhan, 14 from Azimio Primary School said he was happy that his school won. I am very happy, because we won and I managed to score two goals, the match was very tough but here we are with our trophy, noted the young boy whose dream is to become a great footballer.Another pupil from Azimio, Joseph John, said he knew they would win because they had worked hard. I scored one goal today, I am happy and on behalf of my team, we thank our teachers and parents for allowing us to play football. Through sports we get new friends and of course exchange ideas, he said. Alex George from Mamlaka Primary School said they were defeated because his team members were scared. I think they lost hope and that made us lose. We were good during friendly matches, I don t know what went wrong, he said.