Dar es Salaam. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) is today expected to seal the fate of Serengeti Boys after conducting medical tests on Congolese player Langa Lesse Bercy who is at the centre of alleged age fraud in the African Youths Championships.Already, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has sent two physicians, Dr Mwanandi Juma Mwamkemwa, and Edmund Ndalama, to in Cairo, Egypt to witness the exercise. Also in the Tanzania delegation is chairman of Youth Football Development, Ayoub Nyenzi. TFF secretary general Mwesigwa Celestin confirmed the latest development.TFF had filed a complaint against Congo Brazzaville over various players who are alleged to be over age. The football governing body complained that Langa, who is said to have been born on April 24, 2000, plays for Congo Brazzaville s premier league side, Etoile de Talas, and has featured in many top flight matches.Langa wore jersey number 10 in his team s match against Namibia, but changed the jersey in the match against Tanzania and wore jersey number five (5).TFF maintains that the decision to change the jersey was motivated by the team s bid to divert attention away from the controversial player. Namibia also lodged a complaint against this player, prompting the team s managers to make cosmetic changes that were aimed at blindfolding the Tanzanian side. That didn t work. TFF warned before the match that it would seek CAF intervention after the match.Another alleged player-of-shame is the Congo Brazzaville s Under-17 camp is one Rejelvi Beaugorel Massatou, who is said to be a defender born on March 4, 2002. Like Langa, Massatou plays for a premier league side -- Racing Club. He wore jersey number five (5) in the return match against Serengeti Boys in Congo Brazzaville.Also in the list of shame is Rodriques Kiba Konde, born on March 9, 2002, and plays for AS Panthere. He was wearing jersey number nine (9) when his side played Tanzania. There is also Ben Makouana, who has born on September 28, 2002. He plays for a premier side known as Ajax de Ouenze.Other players are Patchely Rael Mbemba, born November 2, 2002, and plays for Ajax de Ouenze), Exau Ngumbi, born October 02, and plays for Racing Club) and Juste Aldo Mantouari, who has born on January 19, 2002 and plays for Cara Espoir.