Arrested Rwenzururu King, Charles Wesley Mumbere, from Western Uganda, is pulling the royalty card, refusing police meals, demanding that his personal chef from his kingdom prepare his food and that his personal doctor be brought in for a medical checkup. Mumbere was arrested on Sunday after Ugandan security forces raided Mumbere s royal palace in Kasese in Western Uganda. During the raid, fierce clashes broke out between royal guards and the security forces, leading to the deaths of more than 60 people, including 14 Ugandan police and soldiers and 46 royal guards, according to media reports. The raid followed an earlier attack on a police post, allegedly by rebels associated with the royal guards, who have used bases in the Rwenzori Mountains to train and launch attacks on government facilities, Kampala alleges. The Rwenzuru Kingdom is a region situated near the Rwenzori Mountains, which border the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It is also an armed historical movement fighting to achieve either autonomy or sovereignty for that region. It includes the districts of Bundibugyo, Kasese and Ntoroko. Uganda s Daily Monitor reported that Mumbere refused the police-provided meals, as he spent a second night in custody in the Nalufenya Police Station, near Jinja, in southern Uganda. He has reportedly been incarcerated in a room previously used to hold Jamil Mukulu, the alleged leader of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebel group who was transferred to Luzira Maximum Security Prison two months ago. After refusing the jail food, the king reportedly further demanded a medical checkup by his personal physician, claiming he had been manhandled by police during his arrest. ALSO READ: Top aide to Burundi president escapes assassination bid During his two days in captivity, he has received visits from five members of parliament, including Rwenzururu Queen Agnes Nyabaghole. The parliamentarians spoke with the king for about half an hour. Sunday s bloody clashes were just the latest in a series of violent confrontations that have taken place over the years in the region, despite Uganda President Yoweri Museveni officially recognising the kingdom in 2009. The African News Agency (ANA) travelled to Kasese and Bundibugyo in March after 50 people were killed in similar outbreaks of violence between security forces, and royal guards and their supporters. When ANA spoke to royal guards in Kasese, they strongly denied they were fighting to break away from Uganda. Furthermore, supporters of Mumbere in Kasese, who had witnessed the violence, told ANA they were being discriminated against based on their political allegiance to Ugandan opposition leader Dr Kizza Besigye, the leader of the Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), who is currently under house arrest after being charged with treason. African News Agency (ANA)