The disbanded ANC Youth League (ANCYL) leadership in the Eastern Cape is operating normally despite an announcement by its national office that a provincial task team (PTT) has been established to replace the provincial executive committee (PEC). It is understood the league was disbanded as punishment after it pronounced that President Jacob Zuma should step down following the Nkandla report. Those in the league s national executive committee at Luthuli House are Zuma supporters and have publicly defended him amid all his political blunders, including the state capture debacle. The national ANCYL s working committee this week announced the appointment of the PTT, saying the structure was composed of current league members, leaders and former leaders in the province. ALSO READ: KZN ANC calls for a judicial review into Madonsela s report Most of the PTT members were from regions such as OR Tambo, Chris Hani, Nelson Mandela, Buffalo City, Alfred Nzo, Amathole and Sarah Baartman. Mziwonke Ndabeni from the OR Tambo region is the team s convener and Ntombikayise Mnyengeza from the Chris Hani region was announced as co-ordinator. But Eastern Cape ANCYL spokesperson Ayongezwa Lungisa lambasted the PTT, saying it was not a legitimate structure of the organisation.Lungisa said the PEC did not recognise the PTT in its entirety. He said none of the present provincial leaders was serving on the task team. There has been no engagement between our PEC and the NEC of the league since we heard rumours through the media that we have been disbanded, Lungisa said. We have not been given an ear by the national leadership of the ANC Youth League as the Eastern Cape. He said the provincial league wrote an appeal letter to the ANC at Luthuli House for intervention since the league NEC had not given them a hearing before disbanding the PEC. We hope the ANC will look at this matter with the sensitivity it deserves. We have a tight case and we will defend ourselves. Lungisa said the league leadership in the province would be operating as usual while waiting for a response to its appeal.