Johannesburg emergency management services spokesperson Robert Mulaudzi has confirmed that two men who were injured in the Sandton structural collapse have been taken to a hospital. &#8220;The men injured at the construction site after the building collapsed have been taken to Sunninghill Hospital. One of the victims sustained critical injuries while the other had minor injuries to moderate injuries,&#8221; said Mulaudzi. The construction site is across the road from the Sandton Gautrain Station. He said the cause of the collapse is not yet known. Emer-G-Med spokesperson Max Cohen explained that Emer-G-Med and the City of Johannesburg Fire Department responded to the reports of the structural collapse on the corner of West and Rivonia roads in Sandton at around 10am on Tuesday. He said paramedics found that a large scaffolding on the side of the building had collapsed and two workers were heavily entrapped. &#8220;Advanced Life Support paramedics worked to stabilise the patients, while Fire and Rescue officials worked to free them from beneath the scaffolding,&#8221; said Cohen. &#8220;Once freed, paramedics further stabilised the patients, one who sustained very critical injuries, the other serious injuries. Once stable, both patients were transported to a specialist trauma hospital under Advanced Life Support care one by Emer-G-Med and the other by Netcare911.&#8221; Cohen also said the events leading up to the collapse were unknown and would be investigated by local authorities. Paramedics assist the injured. Picture: Sandton Chronicle. November 15, 2016, 11.10am: Emer-G-Med paramedics and the City of Johannesburg Fire Department are attending to a structural collapse at a construction site on the corner of West and Rivonia roads, in Sandton, on Tuesday morning. Emer-G-Med spokesperson Max Cohen said: &#8220;At this stage, it is believed that two people are trapped and are in a critical condition. Advanced Life Support paramedics are working to stabilise the patients, while Fire &amp; Rescue officials are working to free them from beneath the rubble.&#8221; The events leading up to the collapse are unknown and will be investigated by local authorities. The Sandton Chronicle reports that the construction company, Trencon, has not commented on the incident yet. The company has said it will release a statement later today. Gautrain spokesperson Kesagee Nayager has also not yet commented on the matter. Two people are trapped in a structural collapse in Sandton. Picture: Emer-G-Med. Caxton News Service