When growing up, we all usually have dreams and aspirations. Whether it s becoming a doctor, engineer, journalist, teacher, lawyer, entrepreneur, you name it. However, at a certain stage in life, especially when in school, our ambitions mostly take a different turn. We opt for courses, which deviate from professions we initially dreamt of and aspire to be something different.The same happened to Zainab Issa, a celebrity chef who runs a cooking TV show on Channel Ten Television. Initially, Zainab s dream was to become a fashion designer but after she completed secondary education, she pursued Information Technology studies instead.However, while on her way to become an IT expert, Zainab realised her calling was in the food industry. Today she is a famous chef in town, running a TV show namely Mahanjumati, on Channel Ten. The 30 minutes show airs on Sundays at 3pm and repeats on Mondays at noon and 3 O clock respectively. I love cooking, Zainab tells me, explaining that her passion for the kitchen developed when she was living with her parents. I think it is because I was the only girl who was left at home with my parents after my sisters got married. Therefore I was the one who prepared food for the family as my mother used to go to work, recalls Zainab. The second born in a family of four adds; There is a talent in cooking which I believe I inherited from my aunt. I come from Tanga and as you know, women from Tanga region and the coast in general are good at cooking, Zainab says with a chuckle.The idea to have a cooking TV programme came to Zainab s mind when she was working with Fairy Delight, an ice cream shop at Shoppers Plaza in the city. She was employed as a branch manager. I asked myself why I should not try something else to earn money through cooking, which I like the most. So I grabbed the opportunity and came up with the TV programme at Channel Ten. I really thank them for giving me the opportunity, she explains.Cooking programmeZainab saw potential in TV because that time there were only a few TV stations and Chanel Ten didn t have a cooking programme.Her first programme was aired in 2007 and it came with mixed reactions. Some viewers sent her congratulatory messages and encouraged her to do more. Others discouraged her saying that running a TV programme was not a walk in the park. They told her how it was expensive and that she would not afford running the show without sponsors.Zainab admits it was costly and that she initially used her own money and thanks her family for their support. Six months down the line a sponsor showed up and made things easier for her. A few months later, another company showed interest to sponsor the show, says Zainab, who works with a small production team of three people at her studio in Mbweni on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam.Zainab believes she is doing something that the public really likes as the programme attracts many viewers. I receive a lot of text messages and phone calls. Some even advised me to consider offering cooking lessons.Cooking classesZainab gave the idea a thought and decided to give cooking classes a try. This serves well for viewers who don t have time to follow the programme on TV. The class started in 2014 with three sessions per day, which are bakery, grilling and making bites. Zainab also offers lessons on how to cook traditional foods from countries like China, India and many others as well as different salads. In every session, we spend two hours learning and practising cooking. I teach how to make pizza, burger, biscuits and different types of cakes and how to decorate them, says the mother of four. I teach my students how to make food for children, the elderly, the sick and general food for all. Zainab also teaches her students the importance of and how to use measurements in every recipe so as to get the ingredients right. Also I teach how to use the oven since some ovens are labeled in Fahrenheit and others in Celsius while some come with gas cookers.Most people who use ovens face challenges in using the ovens because they don t know to balance the heat according to the specifications on their ovens, she says.Apart from the TV show and cookery classes, Zainab offers catering services too where she employs five people. There are times when I employ the service of more people depending on need.Launch of Mahanjumati cookbookLast Month, Zainab launched her first cookbook, which goes by the name Mahanjumati recipe book. The launch, which took place at the National Museum was well attended and among the guests were all the students who attended her cooking classes.Not only that, these students brought their products to sell during the launch. It was some kind of food exhibition.About mahanjumati TV showOn this television programme viewers learn steps and stages in food preparation and cooking in a kitchen on the studio set. The host of the show, Zainab Issa does not end there but is ready to teach those who are willing to learn and have no time to follow the programme on TV. She charges Sh 300,000 per course, and each course takes two weeks.Zainab is happy she finally achieved her dream.Email: sound.living@thecitizen.co.tz