Google search trends for Kenya show that Kenyan afro-jazz musician Achieng Abura drew the highest amount of online traffic in October after she died of an undisclosed illness on October 20. According to a media release by Google Kenya, people also searched for Achieng Abura son as they sought to find out more about the circumstances that led to her death. Achieng Abura s son Prince Abura suffers from sickle cell anemia, it has been revealed, and is in urgent need of medical treatment. Second on the list was American music star Chris Brown, following his maiden visit to Kenya. The R&amp;B singer performed at the Mombasa Rocks Festival , which also featured Nigeria s Wizkid and Tanzania s Ali Kiba, and was billed as the biggest entertainment event in Kenya this year. Mashujaa Day, also known as Heroes Day , was the third most trending search in October as people went online to find out more about the day that seeks to honour those who contributed towards the struggle for Kenya s independence or positively contributed to Kenya s growth after independence. People also searched to find out more about Haiti after it was reported that the Caribbean country was struggling to cope with a rise in cholera cases. Former radio presenter Grace Makosewe was fifth on the list after she was found dead in her Ngumo apartment on October 26. Other search terms that trended in October were Hurricane Matthew as people sought to learn more about the tropical cyclone; Boniface Mwangi after the photojournalist and activist made controversial comments about Deputy President William Ruto; and Mandera attack as people went online to find out more about the terrorist attack that left 12 people dead. Mohammed Alfayo, the man who outraged Kenyans by posting a picture of himself with an underage girl after he allegedly defiled her, also made the top searches. As did Lady Justice Philomena Mwilu after she was nominated for the position of deputy chief justice by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). In the How to search category, the dominant trending search was How to reduce weight as Kenyans went online to gather information on how they can shed a few pounds before the festive season begins. Kenyans also used Google search to learn how to make their favourite snacks and bitings with How to make yogurt at home , How to make meat pie , How to cook biryani , and How to cook fish fillet . Other how to questions were How to answer interview questions and How to reduce cramps . More trending how to searches included How to increase metabolism , a search that is perhaps related to weight loss, and How to massage an infant and How to tell if a guy likes you . African News Agency (ANA)