Most of us will be proud of our achievements at the office and at home, but we somehow always fall short when it comes to the health side of life. Even though it has been coming around for centuries, we are always surprised by summer and how our bodies are so not ready for the sun, beach and those revealing clothes. Throughout the year, we have been paying for gym membership but treated it like some people treat church: reserved only for Easter and Christmas. Of course we are going to have beer boeps, love handles and what has been termed ama-goodbyes , which is the flabby parts under our upper arms that cause earthquakes when we wave to someone. (Now you know how the Queen s wave came about.) Being so out of shape means that we cannot confidently go up a single flight of stairs without being out of breath; men swim with vests at the beach and ladies adorn curtains around swimming pools, as we are a bit ashamed of what we have allow ourselves to become. This is also the time of the year when companies are in desperate need of our money, and they dream up schemes such as Black Friday. The average consumer sees this time of the year as a chance to get their hands on bargains, but I see it as proof that we are overcharged for the rest of the year. Why can retailers sell goods at half-price only once a year and still make a profit? Clearly, they are ripping us off the rest of the time. It is also the very same retailers who sell us stuff then tell us that we can take a break from payment for a few months. You are going to notice a number of campaigns selling all sorts of things now, but allowing you to make the first payment in March! That is the kind of madness that comes with the end of the year. Luckily, there is also some good that comes out as well: braais, get-togethers, stokvels, parties and let s blow our bonus jols. As of this coming Friday, we will also be reminded about the issues that women and children face in some homes. As the money increases, some men will lose it and start abusing their families, something that seems to plague our nation even more at this time of the year. 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Child Abuse will never be enough, but at least this social ill is highlighted so that you, and I can pledge to do something if we are being abused or witness it. No longer can we simply say that, while our neighbour s child or partner is being abused, it is none of our business. If there was ever a time, this is it to make it your business.