Two wanted smash and grab suspects, notoriously dubbed as the thali snatchers , were apprehended by members of the Chatsworth Intervention Unit, together with Captain S Govender from the eThekwini Inner South Cluster, on Link Road, near the informal settlement in KZN, on Sunday, Rising Sun Chatsworth, reports. The team swiftly reacted after receiving information that the smash and grab suspects were lurking under the Croftdene Bridge to attack their next victim. Communications officer of the eThekwini Inner South cluster team, Priya Nunkumar, said the suspects noticed the members and attempted to flee the scene, but the members gave chase and apprehended both suspects. One of the suspects has been positively linked and identified as the thali snatcher and is linked to five other smash and grab cases. The suspects were also found in possession of an iPhone 6 which will be traced back to the owner. &#8220;It is alleged that the suspect is pawning the gold at a local pawn shop within the area, she added. The case is under investigation, and both suspects will be appearing in Chatsworth Magistrates&#8217; Court soon. Rosy Rungasamy and Jolene Ramalingam were left traumatised after the incident. READ MORE: Police issue N2 smash-and-grab warning Initially, two women of Isipingo suffered severe neck injuries and abrasions after being robbed of their sacred yellow strings by brazen criminals in a smash and grab incident last Thursday. The thali snatchers prey on married women who stop under the bridge just before the traffic lights, and the women urge residents to avoid the bridge until police secure the area. Jolene Ramalingam, 41, and Rosy Rungasamy, 37, exited the Ridge Shopping Mall in Shallcross and were on their way to fetch Ramalingam s daughter when the incident occurred. When we left the shopping mall, we realised that the buttons would not stay down. When I automatically and manually locked the doors, the buttons came back up. I think the perpetrators used a jamming device and followed us. Under the bridge, we stopped due to the traffic lights. Two men walked past the vehicle and then came back. One man smashed my window and grabbed my thali. I was shaking and feared for my life. There were vehicles all around us, but nobody assisted us. My sister-in-law, Rosy, managed to fight off the man who approached her window and tried to pull out her thali. This incident has left me shocked at the manner in which criminals operate, said Ramalingam. The pair believes that there is a market for thalis and urge police to clamp down on secondhand goods dealers and jewellery store owners. If nobody buys jewellery from the secondhand dealers, there will be no market for it, and criminals will not steal these items. The thali is sacred and is tied around the woman s neck by her husband on their wedding day. It deserves to be treated with respect and should not be removed from the neck of the wife, however, I urge Hindu women who go out shopping or outing to leave their thalis and other jewellery or valuables at home so that they will not fall victim to these brazen criminals, she said. &#8211; Caxton News Service