We are all allocated 24 hours: 86,400 seconds every day. How you choose to spend this time defines how happy, empowered, and productive you feel.Have you ever noticed that your most productive day can often be the day before a holiday or long trip? Why does this happen?You get decisive and make tough choices because you have little time and you know you will be away for a long time. You tackle the most complicated things that need to be done and do them.So let s look at some simple ground rules that you can incorporate in your daily life to maximize productivity and out-perform yourself.1. Prioritize Defining the three most important tasks the night before helps you to sift through the clutter and focus on what s really important. Start your day with your priority tasks. Finish one completely before starting the other. Their successful completion will infuse you with a burst of energy for a great day ahead.2. Start small, end big Big objectives or goals seem insurmountable and often overwhelm you to the point of inactivity. So break down each goal into a series of small well-defined executable tasks and then immediately start with one. Once you start the task, the ensuing actions will activate insights and further simplify the way ahead. Suddenly the big looming project will not look so frightening any more.3. Follow the Pareto 80/20 rule Do less to achieve more. Spend an hour every week to do an 80/20 analysis of all your tasks and customers. Identify the 20% who yield 80% of your results/business.4. Stick to a routine Our creative energy is infinite, but unless harnessed, it seems purposeless. The most effective people are well aware of their most productive work areas and peak times and create a routine around it to get their best outcomes. For example, Steve Jobs liked to spend his mornings in face-to-face meetings with his product and management teams and his afternoons in the design lab.5. Discipline your Internet habits Besides being a great source of learning, the Internet can also be a huge source of distraction. Hence, incorporate some simple intelligent Internet usage habits in your daily routine. For example, don t check your email first thing in the morning, as it distracts your mind and draws your energy away from your important tasks. Also block all audio and visual notifications to avoid affecting your concentration during your peak times.6. Plan every meeting with a clear objective and end time As a ground rule, before scheduling any meeting, consider if an email, a phone call, or some other form of communication will work in its place. If not, then define the desired objective, the role of each participant and the end time before the meeting to maximize effectiveness. Do not allow people to ramble on without a clear goal. And leave the meeting at its allotted end time regardless of whether they are finished.7. Defend your personal time ruthlessly Ensure you pack your workday within 7-8 hours daily to maximize your output per hour. The more porous your boundaries between work and personal time, the more ineffective and scattered your day will be. For example, make it a rule to leave on time every day and never leave things for the weekend. Setting boundaries forces you to address the important.