She opens up to us about the special moments in her life that have lead her to rejoice: from secretly tying the knot to expecting her second bundle of joy and getting over a million views on YouTube for her Rejoice music video featuring Black Motion, it s been nothing short of perfection. The award-winning Mzansi songbird shares that she feels blessed, Beyond measure baba, ingathi kuyaxokwa. We caught up with the Easy to Love hitmaker and she EXCLUSIVELY spoke to us about her world and all things Bucie Nqwiliso! Bucie, 2016 has been your year to rejoice. Tell us all about it! I met the love of my life earlier this year, got married in August this very same year, I m carrying my second child and my single is doing very, very well. 2016 has been absolutely amazing and colourful! Exciting times ahead! Congrats Bucie! Please share top 5 life lessons that you ve learnt in this year alone, so far. That we are not the authors of our life s story God is. What you think you want and what you think you should get is completely different from what God has prepared for you. Love is priceless! It s something I ve always known but it only made sense to me this year. Patience is a virtue. My entire career and all my hard work is only paying off now but I ve been working hard at it for years now For God so loved the world that He gave His one and only begotten son so that whomsoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life. God will NEVER leave you. He will allow you to go through trials and tribulations to build your character and make you a better person, but He will NEVER leave you nor forsake you. Not everyone around you likes you. Not everyone that smiles at you, smiles with you. That is so deep and profound! Tell us more about your track Rejoice ft. Black Motion. How do you feel about it s huge success? Where do I begin? It s something else hey. When we produce music, we re not always looking for it to be a hit. We are looking for it to resonate with people and for people to connect with it. We want people to feel it and for it to speak to people. So Rejoice truly is a beautiful surprise how it s hit over a million views on YouTube. Just to give you a bit of background, it got released in April, earlier this year and it was very slow to pick up. At some point, my team and I thought it was a flop but it picked up over time. It hit me that having over a million views on YouTube means people are really listening and enjoying my work and they want to visualise what I m saying. I can t begin to tell you what it means to me when I hear people playing my song full blast on their car radios or in the mall and all over the place. I m truly humbled and in awe of God s work! That is amazing! Talk about taking it to church right there. Give us the skinny on how the wife life is treating you? I am his wife but I m still icherie yakhe. Uyi outi yami for life! Our love is new every day! He doesn t just love me, he likes me. Some people don t know the difference but it s there and there s a huge difference. We don t just love each other, we like each other. He is such a beautiful person and he s so calm, laid-back and relaxed. Wow! Talk about beautiful Bucie! You guys though How did you both meet? We met at a restaurant. I was there meeting with friends and he was also there meeting with his friends. We didn t know each other at all. He was literally staring at me the whole time and he wasn t even hiding it. Needless to say, I was uncomfortable. Eventually we spoke and he walked me out. What caught my attention is his soulful eyes and beautiful lips! He asked me for my numbers and I thought, Well, he doesn t seem harmful and I m single so why not? I drove home and eight minutes later he called me and asked if I had arrived home safely. I told him I was all good and he said he saw no point of hanging around with his friends at the restaurant since I was no longer there. Shut the front door! Talk about an enchanting love story! So now you re pretty and preggies! How has your journey been second time round? The only difference is that I m older and more mature. Also, I didn t get morning sickness this time round like I did with my first pregnancy ngoXolani. Yeah, they say every pregnancy is different. Tell us, what more can your fans expect from you as a person and a brand? As Bucie the person, I m just that a person like everybody else. When I m off the stage, done performing and doing my thing, people should expect a normal human being just like any other person. As Bucie Nqwiliso the brand, my supporters can expect an album coming out next year in celebration of my 10 years within the Entertainment Industry. Can you imagine? I still can t believe its been that long! I will be taking them through a journey starting from where I began and I ll also be experimenting with sound: be it house music or RNB or reggae or dance hall music, you name it. It will be very musical and spiritual. Yho! Talk about a teaser and a half we can t wait! Last but not least, what are you looking forward to in 2017? My baby! We don t know the gender as yet as we want to be surprised. The baby will only be named by my husband s family once he or she is welcomed lovingly into this world. I m very excited and hoping for a baby girl. The ability to bring life into this world is such a precious and remarkable gift which I do not take for granted. I m truly blessed and can only rejoice at what God has done in my life. Amen, Sister and we re truly happy for you we wish you all the best in your exciting journey ahead. Brought to you by People Magazine