The past few months in SA politics have been unremittingly grim. There s been no relief, either, from abroad. To be caught between a Trump rock and a Zuma hard place is no fun at all. Blame it on the planets. Certainly, it is not easy to find rational explanations for some of the bizarre stuff that s been unfolding. Take Eskom CEO Brian Molefe, fingered in the public protector s report into state capture for enabling business deals to benefit the Gupta family, President Jacob Zuma s controversial cronies. Molefe initially put up a spirited defence. Flanked by a board equally implicated, he had a ready explanation for being placed by cellphone records in the vicinity of the Guptas Saxonwold compound on numerous occasions. There was a shebeen in the area, he explained tearfully. He was, however, careful to say he would neither confirm nor deny visiting it. In the court of public opinion, the shebeen defence tanked. The subsequent ridicule about the mythical drinking hole achieved what the public protector s report had not. Molefe resigned within a fortnight. He said that he would consider his next career move. Not so, said the Twitter wags. He already had his new job lined up. He was taking up the position of managing director at the Saxonwold shebeen. In terms of schoolboy excuses, Molefe s shebeen joins Zuma s risible explanation that the state-funded swimming pool at his private home was actually a fire pool. In sophistication, they are barely above the level of the dog ate my homework . ALSO READ: Why we should all be angry about the #CoffinAssault That hasn t discouraged State Security Minister David Mahlobo. At the weekend, Al Jazeera implicated him in a rhino-horn smuggling syndicate. The undercover Al Jazeera footage shows a local Chinese businessman, Guan Jiang Guang, speaking about the ease with which he can procure and smuggle rhino horn, claiming that he is in business with Mahlobo via the minister s wife and that Mahlobo is a regular visitor to his massage parlour in Mbombela, as well as to his home. Mahlobo was quick to issue a denial. The [minister] does not have any relationship with the gentleman and has never been to his house or received any of his services at his house, as claimed. Nor, a later statement stresses, does the minister visit massage parlours. He does, however, go to the Mbombela Spa, owned by Guang, for manicures . There is also the burden of celebrity. A number of my comrades, friends and high-profile personalities visit the Mbombela Spa, take photos with Guan s family and some of his staff. Are these individuals now also involved in the illegal rhino trade? That s a good point, Mr Minister. Maybe the Hawks should try to find out? A speedy litmus test might be to have all Mahlobo s mates and comrades slap their hands down on the table for a nail inspection. Meanwhile going for a manicure at the spa will join going for a drink at the Saxonwold shebeen and going for a dip in the fire pool , as valuable contributions to the lexicon of political euphemism, as well as giving long-suffering South Africans a well-deserved laugh. William Saunderson-Meyer