First-round leaders Ross Fisher, Jeunghun Wang and Felipe Aguilar failed to make the grade on Friday as history-making Fabrizio Zanotti and the in-form Alex Noren stole the limelight in the second round of the Nedbank Golf Challenge at Sun City. Zanotti claimed the first hole-in-one in the tournament s 36-year-history as he dominated the front nine with a four-under 32 to claim the early second-round lead, before Noren blazed through the back nine in the same number of strokes to complete a 67 that left him on eight-under-par for the tournament and two strokes ahead. Zanotti, a 33-year-old from Paraguay, started his round with two birdies and then made history as he sank his seven-iron tee shot on the 195-metre fourth hole. He bogeyed the next par-three, the seventh, but further birdies on the eighth, 10th and 14th holes meant he held on to the lead until he reached the 17th. His drive found the fairway bunker and a poor chip on his third shot left him with too much to do to save par, and then on 18 he found the greenside bunker with his approach, leading to another bogey. I was very focused and I made a very good start. I could not believe it when I was told it was the first ever hole-in-one in the tournament, but the organisers later confirmed it. It was just the perfect club and distance and the wind helped a little so the ball could release.&#8221; I feel lucky to be the first and I have done very well so far in the tournament. It was one great shot and I kept playing well afterwards. I must now just keep with my game and enjoy the weekend, Zanotti said after finishing the day on six-under-par, two behind Noren. Fisher dropped down to a tie for eighth place on four-under-par for the tournament as a double-bogey on the 18th hole, hitting his second into the water after a wayward drive, condemned him to a level-par 72. Wang started well with a birdie, but could only pick up another shot on the par-five 10th, and then struggled home with three bogeys to post a 73 for three-under overall. Aguilar started poorly with bogeys on the first two holes, en route to a 75 that left him on one-under for the tournament. Noren has three wins in his last 10 starts and rode that momentum to reach the halfway stage of the tournament in first place. I know how tricky this game is and I just want to improve every week. Obviously it helps to have more confidence but I was very pleased that I kept it together today on a tough course.&#8221; It was a bit more up-and-down today, I was more solid in the first round. But I made a lot of birdies on the back nine after the weather delay and it was a lot of fun, Noren said. Three South Africans are in strong contention to be the first local winner since Trevor Immelman in 2007 with George Coetzee, Louis Oosthuizen and Jaco van Zyl all in a tie for second with Zanotti and Englishman Chris Wood on six-under. Coetzee had three birdies in his first six holes and then birdied the last after a superb approach shot, while Van Zyl did most of his scoring on the front nine, going out in 34 and then picking up a solitary birdie on the par-four 15th hole. Oosthuizen produced the low round of the day, a brilliant six-under 66, and was delighted that he did not drop a single shot. It was a tough first round, I felt I hit the ball really well but I failed to keep bogeys off my card. But today was a good round to get back in contention, two behind going into the weekend.&#8221; The difference today was that I didn t make any stupid bogeys. It s been a while since I ve had a bogey-free round and I will take a lot out of that, Oosthuizen said. Wood had three birdies on the front nine but despite his best attempts had to be content with pars all the way in. Branden Grace is also going to be a factor going into the last two rounds as he finished on four-under after a 69, while Spaniard Alejandro Canizares shot a 68 to leap into seventh place on his own on five-under-par. Denmark s Lasse Jensen also had reason to celebrate a memorable shot as he sunk a three-iron from 245 metres for an albatross on the par-five 14th, it astonishingly being his first shot after the weather delay of more than an hour. &nbsp;