Two ANC ministers on Thursday told the National Assembly the Democratic Alliance s latest motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma was an attempt to protect the economic interests of the country s white minority. Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba said the real reason for the fifth such vote in four years was the commercial power of the minority and the continued enslavement of the country s majority, who were historically kept as a political underclass and abused as beasts of burden, in poverty. The fight today, as it was in the past and will be tomorrow, is not about the person of President Jacob Zuma but it is ultimately about the economic riches of this country. It echoed Water Affairs and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane s earlier comment that the DA aims to keep intact apartheid economic realities . She has also charged that the DA was using a black face to protect the interests of the white minority , sending DA chief whip John Steenhuisen to his feet to object to the slur on Mmusi Maimane, who had introduced the motion. READ MORE: Zuma will kill ANC MPs Shivambu Gigaba said the ANC welcomed former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela s report on allegations of improper ties between the executive and the Gupta family released last week, but it had to be noted that the 355-page document had delivered no conclusive findings of guilt on the part of anybody. He also reiterated the ANC National Working Committee s view that while the African National Congress supported her recommendation of appointing a commission of inquiry to take the investigation further, it should be established in line with the Constitution. This is a reference to the position taken this week by ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe after the NWC met, that it was the prerogative of the president to appoint a judge to head the commission. Madonsela had stipulated that the judge must be appointed not by Zuma but by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, a directive Mantashe suggested should be reviewed by the courts. Both Gigaba and Mokonyane added footnotes referring to the ANC s current internal divisions and recent set-backs, the former saying: What we do not do right we are prepared to correct. Mokonyane in her speech said the party was on a path of self-correction and renewal . Gigaba suggested that instead of bringing the motion the fifth of its kind against Zuma since 2012 the DA should have waited patiently for the commission of inquiry . Instead, he said, it was trying to exploit the state capture report to seek to gain political power to have control of the country s economic wealth. Madonsela found that Zuma may have breached the Executive Members Ethics Act by failing to act on indications that the State was being used to further the business interests of the Gupta family. African News Agency