Irregular expenditure was costing South Africa R46.3 billion, the Auditor General (AG) revealed on Wednesday as he released a report on the national and provincial audit outcomes. Speaking at a media briefing in Cape Town, AG Kimi Makwetu said this was a 80 percent increase on the irregular expenditure recorded since the 2012/13 financial year. If you look at the main reason for the increase in irregular expenditure it continues to be non-compliance with supply chain management laws, so if the department does not comply even if they ve made a great effort to source the goods and services, they still remain non-compliant, said Makwetu. According to the audit outcomes, the biggest contributors to the irregular expenditure was the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) where R13.9 billion of taxpayers money was irregularly spent. Makwetu said while 89 percent of the goods and services procured was delivered, prescribed processes set out in the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act were not followed. One of the things that is contributing to the irregular expenditure is deviations from supply chain for emergency procurement there are also things like sole supplier arrangements there are issues of no competitive quotes obtained and there are also areas that deal with extensions of existing contract, so contracts exist and the principle amount of the initial contract was let s say R100 million and because of extension you end up with a contract which is now suddenly in the billions, said Makwetu. The bottom line is that this is an area where potential savings could be made READ MORE: Popo Molefe pays back the money for extra board meetings Conflicts of interest among government employees was also flagged as a major problem, with Makweu saying they could take advantage of this type of irregular expenditure . According to the AG, the amount of tax payers money being irregularly spent, required the speedy intervention of department heads. There are a number of instances that require the attention of leadership in the institution to take the next step and the next step is to investigate the origins of this environment that creates irregular expenditure, said Makwetu. It is something that is happening because people have got limited capacity to implement policy or is there deliberate intent to not implement the transactions in accordance with supply chain so that they can find ways to achieve another objective with the monies that are expended towards goods and services. According to the audit outcomes report, fruitless and wasteful expenditure was 14 percent higher than 2013/14, totalling R1.37 billion. Prasa was again one of the biggest contributors, along with the water and sanitation department. The inefficiency in the administration, as well as the lack of supervisory roles to make sure programmes are implemented as designed, creates an additional cost burden because those interest charges as well as those penalties, as well as issues pertaining to goods and services being bought but not used is a combination of things that collaborate towards fruitless and wasteful expenditure, said Makwetu. Makwetu said too many people were allowed to use their own discretion when procuring goods and services without supervision, essentially opening the door for corrupt and fraudulent activity. Ultimately when you look at all of these audit outcomes, there s a prevalance of conditions that indicate [that] if we do not address the issue of uncontrolled discretion on applying policy, there s no accountability. African News Agency