Former Robben Island political prisoner and anti-apartheid activist Tokyo Sexwale is in Israel and will meet with Israeli Sports Minister Miri Regev on Monday to discuss the contentious issue of Israel s continued membership of the international football association Fifa. Sexwale is the chairman of the Fifa monitoring committee, and rights organisations are pushing the former champion of human rights to get tough with the Israelis over Israel s illegal settlements in the occupied Palestinian West Bank. At the heart of the dispute are six Israeli soccer clubs based in illegal West Bank settlements, which play for lower Israeli football divisions. According to FIFA rules, clubs affiliated with one member association cannot play on the territory of another member association without the latter or Fifa s consent. Human Rights Watch (HRW) sent a report on Monday to Zeid Ra ad Al Hussein, the High Commissioner at the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), outlining Israel s illegal activities in the West Bank, including the Fifa issue. Through its affiliate, the Israel Football Association (IFA), Fifa is organising matches in Israeli settlements in the West Bank on land that has been unlawfully seized from Palestinians, stated HRW s report. Fifa is sponsoring the matches by allowing six semi-professional clubs in the IFA to hold their official home matches on fields located in Israeli settlements. By allowing the IFA to organise games inside settlements, Fifa is engaging in business activity that supports Israeli settlements, contrary to the human rights commitments it recently affirmed. An April 2016 report commissioned by Fifa, written by John Ruggie, the author of the UNGP, makes specific recommendations for Fifa to implement the UNGP throughout its activities, added HRW. The rights organisation further stated that Fifa, a nonprofit association registered in Switzerland, was engaging in significant commercial activity with global professional football revenues estimated to be at $33 billion annually. First, the settlement playing grounds, including one indoor hall, are built on land that has been unlawfully taken from Palestinians, mostly by seizing land belonging to Palestinian individuals or Palestinian villages, declaring it state land, and then designating it for exclusive Israeli civilian use, said HRW. A field in the Givat Ze ev settlement is owned by two Palestinian families from the nearby town of Beitunia, who have been unable to access their land for decades since the settlement was built. They were offered no compensation and did not give permission to anyone, including FIFA and the IFA, to use their land. Second, financial documents that HRW has reviewed show that the IFA is engaging in business activity that supports the settlements. Settlement football clubs provide part-time employment and recreational services to settlers, making the settlements more sustainable, thus propping up a system that exists through serious human rights violations, said HRW. Third, the clubs provide services to Israelis but do not and cannot provide them to West Bank Palestinians, who are not allowed to enter settlements except as labourers bearing special permits. Because of this, football teams, for example, operating in the settlements, are available to Israelis only, and West Bank Palestinians may not participate, play on the teams or even attend games as spectators. In most cases, the clubs receive a majority of their funding from the settlement municipalities and regional councils, which essentially pay them to organise sports and recreational services for Israelis only.