The gloves have come off in the ANC, as the leadership race heats up with the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) sticking to its guns that outgoing African Union (AU) Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma should become the next ANC leader and possibly head of state in 2019. The MKMVA also wants Mpumalanga premier and ANC provincial chairperson David DD Mabuza to become the next ANC deputy president. Mabuza is a close ally of President Jacob Zuma and is a key player in the premier league an ANC lobby group that includes Free State Premier Ace Magashule and North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe told The Saturday Citizen on Friday that Dlamini-Zuma had passed through the eye of the needle , which is the ANC s fundamental guide to selecting good leaders. We are guided by the constitution of the ANC, Maphatsoe said. We are not guided by what other people think. We have been convinced by the ANC Women s League that it is time that we have a female president. Maphatsoe said it would not be a bad choice for Mabuza to be the deputy president. He has done well in Mpumalanga, Maphatsoe said. DD has united the ANC in Mpumalanga. That is the type of leadership that we want in the top six. It would not be a bad choice for DD to be the deputy president. On Thursday, trade union federation Cosatu officially endorsed deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over as ANC president at the party s elective conference next year. However, Maphatsoe said it was not a given that the deputy president ultimately becomes the president. READ MORE: SA will have a woman president, vows the ANC Women s League Branches may decide they want a particular candidate, he said. Maphatsoe said contestation for leadership positions in the ANC was fine as long as there was not going to be blood on the floor. There have been contestations of ANC leadership positions in the past, Maphatsoe said. At the 1991 ANC Durban national conference, former SACP general secretary Chris Hani wanted to contest Thabo Mbeki for the deputy presidency position. Walter Sisulu was brought in to unite the ANC. Maphatsoe, who is also the deputy minister of defence and military veterans, pleaded with the ANC to open the succession debate. The sooner the succession debate is opened the better, Maphatsoe said. If you stifle the debate, it will be difficult to control it. There will be underground meetings, he warned. Meanwhile, the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) on Friday lashed out at Cosatu for giving Ramaphosa the nod. Numsa has already put on record its view that Cyril Ramaphosa is an enemy of the working class, Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim said on Friday. He has consistently attacked workers hard-won gains and defended the interests of the exploiting capitalist class, most recently with the minimum wage issue.&#8221;