Busisiwe Mkhwebane is an exponent of Orwellian doublespeak the distortion of language for political purposes. But people are not fooled. In this art form, meanings of words are transformed into their opposites. Lewis Carroll s Humpty Dumpty put it well: When I use a word, it means just what I choose it to mean neither more nor less. Although Mkhwebane s title is public protector, her actions have the opposite effect. She protects President Jacob Zuma from the public, rather than protecting the public. All agree that Mkhwebane visited a police station in Pretoria during the past week. But she is playing word games about what she did there. The official statement says: It is not true that Mkhwebane laid charges against her predecessor [Thuli Madonsela]. Instead she opened a case at the Brooklyn Police Station requesting an investigation into the alleged leaks to establish if they amount to a breach of section 7 (2) of the Public Protector Act. Boffins are baffled by this dubious distinction between laying charges and opening a case. In practice, both amount to the same thing. Examine the statement further. And in doing so, remember that Mkhwebane is an advocate. She goes to a police station to ask people, whose legal training is inferior to hers, whether a section of the Public Protector Act has been breached. READ MORE: Compromised Mkhwebane slated for defending Zuma This does not make sense. Tweeps were quick to pounce. Mary Metcalfe tweeted: Do I understand correctly from Adv P Protector s denial that she popped into her local police station for advice interpreting the law? Redi Tlhabi noted: If the PP wanted an opinion on whether leaking constitutes a breach, she would have asked lawyers, not the police. Precisely. The alleged offence was the release to eNCA of audio tapes of talks between Madonsela, Zuma and his legal team. Crucially, they contradict Zuma s assertion that Madonsela had not given him the opportunity to answer allegations. The tapes prove Zuma lied to parliament on this matter. He was given ample opportunity. Mkhwebane said her decision to go to the police was informed by complaints from the presidency . In other words, she was doing Zuma s bidding. As constitutional law expert Pierre de Vos points out, a transcript of the tapes had already been made available by Madonsela, after a court had ordered her to release her State of Capture report. Under those circumstances, releasing the tapes is not an offence. Mkhwebane s reasons for requesting an investigation require scrutiny. She did so in order to maintain the credibility of the public protector and for the people to trust the institution . Yet the effect is the opposite. She is eroding the credibility of her office by siding with Zuma. She had done this from the start, including her instruction that staff watch the Gupta-owned ANN7 TV channel. The pro-Zuma bias of that outlet puts her in a camp. Another test for her is Zuma s announcement that he wants a judicial review of the State of Capture report. Her duty is to defend the report by opposing Zuma s judicial review application. She cannot earn or maintain public trust by aligning herself with Zuma. Doublespeak is not credible. DA city councillor for Joburg Martin Williams For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.