No surprise that today s Fairview card is loaded with competitive races and although spotting the proverbial good thing is difficult, it is not impossible. Race 4, a MR 76 Handicap over 2400m on the turf track contains a horse who has done little wrong since setting foot in the Eastern Cape. Scent has performed well at Fairview, running six times for three wins and three places. This Alan Greeff-trained five-year-old son of Silvano has not run out of the top three at the course and that does not look likely to change anytime soon. He carries 59kg and kicks off from stall No. 12, which shouldn t be much of an issue over this distance. He has shown a lot of class considering he has run over a variety of distances ranging from 1000m to 2400m and performed extremely well. As he won over the course and distance in August this trip should not be a problem. On that occasion he won full of running to beat Duel Fort by just over a length and that should make him very hard to beat. Using Scent as a gauge, Inviting Lily looks a potential winner in Race 5, a MR 71 Handicap over 1400m. He went down to Scent by 1.25 lengths in his last run. This four-year-old son of Dynasty is in top form and should be a massive factor when the runners head for the finishing line. Callan Murray is back in the saddle which might play to his advantage. The pair have teamed up successfully five times for two wins and two places. The most interesting race on the card is Race 6, the Guineas Plate over 1400m for fillies. This promises to be a nail-biting event and there look to be a number of contenders. Hurricane Shelley will be in pursuit of her third consecutive win. This daughter of Argonaut is a track specialist and might just be the one to beat. Tara Laing-trained Star Burst Galaxy was heavily backed on her first run at Fairview when winning comfortably by just over a length under jockey Raymond Danielson. The pair should have big say in this race. Candy Crush has shown a lot of heart over her last two outings, finishing second by the smallest of margins one of which was against Hurricane Shelley. This time around she only shoulders 56kg, 4kg less than Hurricane Shelley and will be looking to go one up by sticking her head down at the right time. Maverick Girl ran a cracker last time, leading from start to finish and winning by over three lengths, and is not without a chance. &nbsp;