The Black Minnaloushe filly Beaute Noire tried very hard but found Sweet Lady Jade half a length superior at Scottsville over 1400m last month and the step up in distance should suit her well enough to win Race 7, a FM 66 Handicap over 1600m on the Greyville Polytrack today. That run suggested Beaute Noire is better than her merit rating of 79 and she has experience of racing on this surface as back in June when she was a decent third place behind Costa Da Sol. Beaute Noire is one of three decent runners for the Weiho Marwing-Marco van Rensburg combination. Aramouse and San Julian Bay are the other two. The Kahal gelding Aramouse has held form very nicely this season and is well suited to the course and distance of Race 3, a MR 75 Handicap over 1200m. A wide draw will not make it easy but he will be concerned in the finish. Another rider who has some good mounts on this card is Anton Marcus and will be aboard the main danger to Aramouse, Promissory. This Overlord gelding has held form well since being gelded in August. The gods of the draws have not been kind to Marwing and Van Rensburg as San Julian Bay also has a terrible draw to overcome in Race 6, a MR 62 Handicap over 1600m. His gelding in March clearly worked with the four-year-old as he has improved and beat Aquabuoy In June. San Julian Bay proceeded to run two good races when third behind King And Empire and runner-up to Putchini. More was expected of San Julian Bay last week over this course and distance but he may have just been in need of the race. Two other runners on this card worth having a look at are We re Watching You in Race 2 and Top Form in Race 4. We re Watching You only found Hallowed Spring too good on debut and This Visionaire filly should not be in maiden company for too long. Top Form is running in a competitive field but does look likely to run a big race. Jockey Marcus knows Top Form well enough having won on him in June and the decent runner-up berth he produced last time out behind stable companion Buffalo Soldier suggested another win would come sooner rather than later. 