Drama reportedly ensued in the Johannesburg council chambers on Friday between Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) councillors after one of their own bungled a vote, resulting in a tense quarrel. ALSO READ: Vavi declares his love for Fidel Castro TimesLive reported on Saturday that during the tabling of the first quarter performance report for the group finance department an EFF councillor incorrectly voted for its adoption despite his party s opposition to it because of certain discrepancies it objected to. It is the view of the EFF that we should not accept or pass a financial budget that has a lot of discrepancies because the consolidated group finance report must be of the figures provided by departments said EFF Johannesburg chairman Musa Novela. Council speaker Vasco da Gama was apparently prompted to call for a vote through a show of hands with most councillors, apart from those in the EFF, supported the budget being passed. A simple show of hands did not properly reflect the numbers of how the councillors had voted, Novela charged. He reportedly said to the Council speaker: We can&#8217;t work like that how many against how many? Please do not do those things. We ask very nicely let&#8217;s have proper figures that indicate how the voting process went. A different process was initiated by the speaker during which the names of councillors were read out aloud and they had to respond with a yes or a no . But an EFF councillor responded with a yes and changed tack when he realised his mistake saying that he thought roll call was taking place. The news website reported that the meeting was stopped for a while as councillors argued over whether or not the yes counted as a vote. at some point during the meeting, Novela quickly left his seat and walked to the EFF councillor speaking to him in a serious hushed tones as the councillor sat silently nodding. ALSO READ: SA-Cuba relations in brief Members of the EFF had apparently turned towards the councillor shouting and gesturing. DA councillor Michael Sun brought calm to the meeting after he said the EFF was new to council and its members should be given a chance to learn. The councillor&#8217;s name was called out again and he responded with a resounding no .