Have you ever wondered whether the Guptas are indeed puppet masters, rather than secondary string pullers acting on behalf of others? Could their displays of wealth and influence be a sideshow, while bigger forces work unseen? Such a scenario could help explain President Jacob Zuma s reluctance to sign into law the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment (Fica) Bill. Why would he hold up this law, whose passage is necessary for South Africa to comply with the international Financial Action Task Force (FATF)? This line of reasoning is going somewhere, I promise. Hang in there. In a Sunday Times column, Peter Bruce wrote over the weekend that the consequences could be dire if South Africa falls foul of the FATF. Already, investors are skittish about our banking system. Exclusion from the FATF would make our country even less attractive. This point arises in an affidavit by the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac). Casac wants the Constitutional Court to rule that by not signing the Fica Bill, Zuma has failed to fulfil his constitutional obligations. Failure to sign and implement the bill could have grave consequences for our capacity to fight corruption, our banking system and, in particular, correspondent relationships with international banks. The latter could seriously undermine international trade and economic activity , the affidavit reads. With the US, China, the UK, France, Germany, Russia and India as members, the FATF seeks to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and related threats to the integrity of the international financial system . Do you know of any suspected money launderers? Considering court documents and media coverage, there is understandably suspicion that Zuma is deliberately stalling the Fica Bill because it would tighten the screws on politically exposed persons , who frequent a mythical shebeen in Saxonwold. Let us recall the high court affidavit filed by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, in which he mentioned R6.8 billion worth of Gupta-related transactions listed as suspicious by the Financial Intelligence Centre. Commenting on this list, economist Mike Schussler told eNCA on October 18 the amounts were huge in relation to the Gupta companies. The figures did not make sense. Such discrepancies trigger questions about whether money is being laundered, and whose money? Could deals in South Africa really have filled Dubai-bound suitcases stuffed with cash, or is much of that stash en route from elsewhere as part of a bigger money laundering scheme? In his column, Bruce recalls attempts in 2010 by the Guptas to get national carrier South African Airways to drop its India route. It all raises a serious question. The Guptas were once interested in buying into SAA, but they are not in the airline business. So, on whose behalf were they lobbying? Put another way, if they are laundering money, whose money is it, actually? All this makes Casac s Constitutional Court case interesting. Will deeper truths emerge when Zuma is compelled to sign the Fica Bill? Will we find out who is pulling the strings?