On Thursday, South Africans were faced with the image of Eskom CEO Brian Molefe breaking down in tears at a media briefing. He was clearly upset about how he had been presented in the Public Protector s report State of Capture&#8217;, which had been released the day before. The report, he said painted me with a corrupt brush . This despite the fact that he had not been given the opportunity to respond to what it contained. What pains me most, is I never had the opportunity to explain myself before Madonsela, Molefe said. My reputation will be tainted. My children will be taunted at school. His point should not simply be dismissed. The interest surrounding the report has been significant and there has been a tendency among both the media and the public to assume that the concerns raised by it must be true. And certainly the former Public Protector brought up some extremely worrying matters. The evidence presented leaves no question that Molefe and others mentioned in the report need to explain themselves. However, it is crucial to understand that the report makes no findings. It only concludes that the evidence that the Public Protector was able to collect demands that these matters raised be properly investigated. Madonsela herself is quite upfront about this. She explains that her office was not given adequate resources to conduct a full investigation, and therefore her work was limited in its scope. The investigation has proven that the extent of issues it needs to traverse and resources necessary to execute it is incapable of being executed fully by the Public Protector, she noted in the report. This was foreshadowed at the commencement of the investigation when the Public Protector wrote to government requesting for resources for a special investigation similar to a commission of inquiry overseen by the Public Protector. This investigation has been hamstrung by the late release which caused the investigation to commence later than planned. The situation was compounded by the inadequacy of the allocated funds (R1.5 million). Molefe, and everyone else, need to appreciate that Madonsela did what she could under the circumstances. She took it upon herself to uncover as much evidence as she could, but she had neither the time nor the resources to test it all thoroughly. If Molefe has an issue with that, then he should raise it with those in parliament who, it appears, deliberately under-resourced the investigation in the first place. Instead of casting doubt on the integrity of the Public Protector, he should be asking why she was forced into this situation. He should also be asking why this matter was left up to the Public Protector at all. The concerns around the sale of the Optimum Coal Mine and Eskom s advance to Tegeta have been in the media for a very long time. Why, given their seriousness, were they not properly investigated by anybody else? It should not have been left to the Public Protector s office to have to step in as a last resort. These matters should have been thoroughly scrutinised by the Eskom board itself, by parliament and law enforcement agencies. The fact they never were is why Madonsela and her team had to step in. What Madonsela has done is to present a case that now needs to be answered. And if her remedial actions are implemented, Molefe, President Jacob Zuma, the Guptas and others named in the report will have their chance to do exactly that. It also appears that Madonsela had legitimate concerns that if she did not release the report, whether it was rushed or not, all of the issues it has now raised would be buried. The incoming Public Protector has shown no appetite for addressing them, and no other authorities have taken any steps in this regard. In the end, it may be that Molefe will vindicated through further investiation. It s worth bearing in mind that, until very recently, he was a man held in very wide respect and that Eskom was in a far bigger mess than it is now when he took over as CEO. At the same time, however, Molefe and his chairman, Dr Ben Ngubane, should not try to blame the Public Protector for the scrutiny they are now under. They should accept that they should first of all be more circumspect about the company that they keep, and secondly that they should have insisted on a more robust investigation of the matter themselves when concerns started being raised. If you try to ignore issues like this, they don t just go away. It should not have taken the release of the Public Protector s report for Molefe to finally go on record with his version of what happened. At the very least, parliament should have insisted on this a long time ago. So while everyone should bear in mind that the Public Protector did not find anyone guilty of anything, that doesn t mean that South Africans should not insist that Molefe and everyone else named in the report are held to account. That is where Madonsela has left us. Brought to you by Moneyweb