On the third attempt to garner enough votes, the ANC has managed to pass the controversial Division of Revenue Amendment (Dora) Bill. Without the support of absent ANC MPs in two sittings last week an anomaly in the history of the current parliament the bill was eventually passed with 228 members in favour and 86 against. But the voting did not go without hitches, as opposition members argued ongoing points of order, which put Speaker Baleka Mbete continually on the back foot. As per the rules, during voting, the doors to the National Assembly are meant to be locked, but this did not stop some MPs from arriving late to cast a vote. Mbete ruled the votes of two MPs one of whom was Congress of the People deputy president Willie Madisha who had pushed their way into the chamber would not be counted. However, this had already caused a stir among opposition parties, who used the opportunity to take a dig at Mbete for failing to keep her house in order. The DA chief whip, John Steenhuisen, was the first to argue that it was Mbete s duty to ensure that the rules were followed. Last week, in protest against the empty ANC benches, the DA left the house before voting got under way to illustrate how poor ANC attendance was. This was despite an urgent SMS from chief whip Jackson Mthembu to members to come out in their numbers to vote. ALSO READ: DA asks biased Mbete to step aside You re the presiding officer. The buck stops with you. Can you please get your voting under control, said Steenhuisen. The Economic Freedom Fighters Mbuyiseni Ndlozi was quick to rise to sarcastically help Mbete. Speaker, can we help you? Maybe we can [position] people with Doom [insect repellent] at the doors, then the doors will be closed properly? Ndlozi was referring to this week s outcry over Limpopo prophet Lethebo Rabalago, who sprayed the insecticide into congregants faces to &#8220;heal&#8221; them. Steenhuisen continued to argue that Mbete had again violated rules by refusing to allow EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu to be heard. The Division of Revenue Amendment Bill puts into effect budget allocations of money to provincial and local government. Up until now, the monetary allocations announced by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan last month have not been able to be put into effect. Treasury has reportedly warned that if the Bill isn t passed by the end of the year, service delivery may be affected. The DA has argued the split of taxpayers money to the various spheres of government was unfair.