The Congress of the People (Cope) on Tuesday said they assured National Prosecutions Authority Head Shaun Abrahams they would not leave his abuse of state power unchallenged . Cope is fuming after the NPA informed them they would not be investigating the charge laid by Cope against African National Congress Youth Leader (ANCYL) Collen Maine for unlawfully inciting violence in breach of the Constitution, saying it had been withdrawn by the public prosecutor. Cope national spokesperson Dennis Bloem told the media in Pretoria that this decision was allegedly made on the day Abrahams met with President Jacob Zuma, Justice Minister Michael Masutha, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and State Security Minister David Mahlobo at the ANC headquarters, Luthuli House, in Johannesburg. Shaun Abrahams is captured by the state and was directed not to investigate the charges, Bloem said. In January, Maine said: Those who seek to disrupt the state of the nation address must prepare themselves for a civil war the Youth League will physically remove woodworkers from parliament. We cannot allow Julius Malema and his monkeys to run our country amok and turn this country into a banana republic. Cope opened a case at Brooklyn Police Station, and that case was transferred to the Soshanguve Police Station, who informed Cope the charges were dropped. Bloem said Maine s remarks threatening a civil war had to be taken very seriously. He said they were utterly shocked at the NPA s decision not to prosecute Maine without an explanation. The NPA and Abrahams are captured. He is taking instructions, that&#8217;s why he is charging Malema and not Maine. We are not saying Malema must not be charged, but what Maine said is more serious, as he called for a civil war. Abrahams is unfit to stand office. He said Zuma had surrounded himself with a strong security cluster that were all captured. &#8220;The NPA, the security cluster, the police and the defence force are all captured,&#8221; Bloem said. He said for the sake of the economy and the lives of people, they could not keep quiet while the country was going in the wrong direction.