The Citizen s publisher, Eureka Zandberg, has come out strongly against continued allegations of racism levelled at the newspaper s editorial staff. This after a march to its offices earlier this week by the The Forum of Journalists for Transformation (FJT) supported by organisations including the Communications Workers&#8217; Union following a suspension of The Citizen s editor Steven Motale, earlier this month. Motale was suspended pending an inquiry. Further to our previous statement in which we clearly stipulate that we deny the allegations of racism, editorial interference and violation, exploitation or victimisation of our journalists, we herewith respond to the unfounded speculation regarding Mr Motale s suspension, said Zandberg. The Citizen adheres to the principle of editorial independence. Management has never interfered with the editorial prerogative in determining which stories to publish, nor does Mr Motale s suspension relate to the content or subject matter of any particular story, she added. READ MORE: Cosatu, BLF, FJT, PA, Cosas and PAC march on Citizen s offices His suspension relates to a failure to comply with agreed-upon editorial procedures and the breakdown in the trust between him and the publisher. The FJT had previously said it found it strange that the editor was suspended after a damning investigation about former finance minister Trevor Manuel, current finance minister Pravin Gordhan and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu was published in the paper . It appears that Motale has been accused of having a personal vendetta against Manuel, and of running a campaign against him. These allegations are unfounded, said the FJT. Claims at the march had also been made that white journalists at the organisation had been captured and black journalists were puppets . But deputy editor Trevor Stevens said that was far from the truth. What a load of hogwash. Our journalists adhere to the highest journalistic standards, said Stevens. While we take these claims seriously, to make such wild, hurtful accusations in public is irresponsible. 