The ANC has released a statement calling for the fast-tracking of a tribunal to govern the media. The tribunal was first proposed in an ANC discussion paper in 2010 that had as its basic premise the idea that freedom of the press is not an absolute right, but it must be balanced against individual rights to privacy and human dignity. Several media companies have stated their opposition to such a tribunal. The discussion paper argued that the avenues individuals could pursue to right a media wrong, namely litigation and complaining to the Press Ombudsman, were inadequate, since litigation is expensive (and thus inaccessible to a large number of South Africans) and long-winded, whereas the Press Ombudsman&#8217;s background in media was seen as resulting in &#8220;&#8230;an inherent bias towards the media with all interpretations favourable to the institution&#8230;&#8221; The establishment of a Media Appeals Tribunal accountable to Parliament was thought to be a remedy to this situation. In January 2011, President Jacob Zuma called on the South African media to &#8220;speed up its transformation processes&#8221;, but did not mention the Media Appeals Tribunal specifically. The ANC confirmed, through then spokesperson Jackson Mthembu, that it was not going to pursue the matter until further notice, stating &#8220;We will give you the space to transform yourself and then see where it takes us.&#8221; Mthembu clarified that if the Press Council imposed measures that &#8220;discourage irresponsible reporting&#8221; the ANC would retain the current model of media self-regulation. Now, though, the party appears to have taken a renewed position of strongly calling for state intervention. Read the full ANC statement released by ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa below: &#8220;It is with great concern and interest that the African National Congress has noted the suspension of Citizen Editor, Mr Steve Motale and the resultant debate about the lack of transformation within the media with particular reference and emphasis on print media. This is a historical debate, and one which will be unresolved for as long as there are, within society and the media itself, defenders of a system that is untransformed in terms of ownership, control and management. This defence presents itself as upholding media freedom and freedom of speech while in reality masking the commitment to undermine the diversity of views and plurality of voices. A largely untransformed media, as we have in South Africa, is an offensive against progressive values and ideas. ALSO READ: Cosatu, BLF, FJT, PA, Cosas and PAC march on Citizen&#8217;s offices &#8220;Having understood that the media is a contested terrain and therefore not neutral but reflective of the ideological battles and power relations in society, the ANC has continuously sought to effect fundamental and lasting change in the sector. We condemn in the harshest possible terms interference by vested interests in the functioning of the newsrooms and the stifling of editorial independence to drive predetermined agendas. Honesty, accountability, fairness and editorial independence are meant to be hallmarks of our media, however it is increasingly clear that certain sections of the media continue to adopt anti-transformation stances and remain unaccountable to the general public. &#8220;It is for this reason, amongst others, that the ANC noted in the 52nd National Conference that the &#8216;Press Ombudsman/ Press Council is not adequate to sufficiently protect the rights of the individual citizens, community and society as a whole&#8217;. Under the guise of freedom of speech, our media tramples on the constitutional rights of others and in itself begins to constitute the real threat to media freedom, diversity and democracy. &#8220;The African National Congress calls on Parliament to accelerate the implementation of the resolution for the establishment of a Media Appeal Tribunal. It is starkly clear that the people of South Africa can no longer rely on the system of co-regulation of the media when even the South African National Editors Forum (SANEF) recognises and remains toothless to deal with the challenge in their own words that &#8216;editors must be afforded the independence to do their work without any interference or unnecessary, or undue pressure&#8217; as in the case of Steve Motale.&#8221;