South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) governor Lesetja Kganyago has announced that interest rates will remain unchanged citing a high degree of uncertainty around policy changes globally and the continued volatility of financial markets. ALSO READ: You can save SA Following a three day meeting, central bank policy makers elected to hold the benchmark repurchase rate, the rate at which the Sarb lends money to banks, at 7%. The prime lending rate, charged by banks to customers, will remain at 10.5%. The decision, which was in line with expectations, comes after the latest inflation reading breached the Sarb s 3% to 6% target band. Statistics South Africa data revealed, on Wednesday, that headline consumer inflation ticked up to 6.4% year-on-year in in October from 6.1% year-on-year in September. The central bank expects inflation to peak at 6.6% in the fourth quarter of this year and remain above the target range until the second quarter of 2017. However, the risks to the inflation outlook have increased moderately largely due to the possibility of global and domestically generated shocks. The uncertain emerging markets outlook, driven in part by the the surprise US election result, Brexit and concerns about the sustainability of the recovery in the Chinese economy, is expected to impact the rand. Sarb data reveals that the rand was trading at 13.20 against the dollar prior to the US elections, reaching its weakest point of 14.60 against the greenback after Republican Donald Trump was elected president. The rand is expected to remain sensitive to changes in the stance of the US monetary policy. A US rate increase is generally expected in December and probably largely priced in, but of greater significance for the rand will be signals from the FOMC regarding the trajectory of future increases. The rand will also remain sensitive to the the sovereign ratings announcements due later this month, he added. The rand depreciated by around 5.7% against the dollar and by 1.1% on a trade-weighted basis since the last Monetary Policy Committee meeting between September 19 to September 21. While the rand has, in recent months, received support by improved trade accounts, the bank expects the current account deficit to have widened in the third quarter of the year. The financing of the deficit may become more challenging should the recent significant non-resident sales of bonds and equities persist, Kganyago said. Non-residents have been net sellers of domestic bonds and equities amounting to R42.7 billion and R19.7 billion respectively since October to date. ALSO READ: Cosatu backs Cyril Ramaphosa The Sarb maintained its economic growth forecast of 0.4% for 2016, rising to 1.2% and 1.6% respectively over the next two years. It is of the view that the end of the rate hiking cycle is close but will re-asses this view if the upside risks transpire. The bar is for a rate cut remains high, he said. The Reserve Bank increased interest rates twice this year. It upped the repurchase rate by 50 basis points to 6.75% in January and by a further 25 basis points to 7% in March 2016. Brought to you by Moneyweb