 Sad thoughts trouble my sleep at night, said South Korea s President Park Geun-hye. I realise that whatever I do, it will be difficult to mend the hearts of the people, and then I feel a sense of shame. And so she should, but it s also hard not to feel sympathy for her plight. This isn t your usual political corruption case. She never benefited from her actions. Despite Park s televised apology on November 4, the opposition-controlled National Assembly voted on Thursday to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the president, and anti-Park demonstrations continue daily. As a sitting president, she cannot be prosecuted, but prosecutors will begin questioning her next week. She was nine when her father, General Park Chung-hee, seized power in South Korea in 1961. She was 15 when North Korean special forces infiltrated Seoul and launched an assault that got within metres of the presidential Blue House. And she was 22 when an assassination attempt on her father miscarried and killed her mother, Yuk Yeong-su, instead. It was then that pseudo-Christian cult leader Choi Tae-min, who had set up his religious group known as the Church of Eternal Life, befriended the grief-stricken and isolated young woman. Choi became her mentor, a relationship that became even closer after her own father was also assassinated in 1978. The lonely young woman also grew close to Choi s daughter, Soon-sil, who was only four years younger and that bond persisted even after Choi Taemin s death in 1994. Monday 12 21 November 2016 Park Geun-hye has been in the Choi family s clutches for her adult life, and they hit the jackpot when she won the presidential election in 2012. Choi even shook down major South Korean corporations for millions of dollars on the strength of her claimed influence over the president. In total, some $70 million (R1 billion) is alleged to have gone to Choi s two non-profit foundations. Whether Park Geun-hye was aware of these donations is unknown, and the authorities have not yet gone through the books of the foundations to see if Choi was draining off funds for her personal use. But on the latter count, at least, suspicions are strong. What triggered Choi s downfall was her attempt to get her daughter admitted to the prestigious Ewha Women s University, claiming she had the president s support. The girl was accepted, but the students launched a public protest against this breach of the university s rules. Getting into the right university is as important in Korea as it is in Japan, and fairness in the selection process is sacred. At this point, late last month, Choi and her daughter gave up and left for Germany but she left an unencrypted laptop behind in her abandoned office in Seoul with all the details of her manipulations. It was found by cable TV network JTBC, and the fat was in the fire. Choi is probably going to jail, her daughter is not going to university, and President Park is going &#8230; where? She has only fifteen months left of her five-year term, and the opposition parties would probably prefer to let her bleed all over her party s credibility. But she is finished politically, and that just feels sad.