Dar es Salaam. A German-based Science and Technology firm, Merck (Pty) Limited, is geared at teaming up with the government in renewed efforts to tackle the spread of malaria and control the penetration of counterfeit medications into Tanzania.During a recent roundtable meeting with officials from the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Elderly and Children, Merck expressed its willingness to join forces with the government through public-private partnership, in plans to increase the supply of mosquito nets to health facilities, manufacturing of anti-malaria drugs and training of medics.Drawing the attention of stakeholders to the current status of malaria in Tanzania, Deputy Health Minister, Dr Hamis Kigwangala, who led the government team in the discussions, said: Malaria cases may have declined in Tanzania in recent years but the disease is remains highly prevalent. The government cannot succeed alone in the efforts to eliminate the disease. It needs strong collaboration with innovative firms. But, he asked the representatives of the firm to go the extra mile in tackling the threat of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) which have proved to be a double-burden to the country s healthcare system. There is an ongoing initiative by Merck to improve access to innovative medicines in diabetes, high blood pressure. This will ensure better quality of life for Tanzanians who are currently faced with the threat of the NCDs, added Dr Kigwangala.He revealed that the firm had donated Minilab machines to the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) to help in detecting counterfeit medications that occasionally find their way into the country through crooked businesspeople. Tanzania is one of the countries highly affected by the global problem of counterfeit medicines, so the Merk support will go a long way in helping it to tackle the problem with its advanced technology, he noted.Merck Managing Director Stephan Maron who was leading the team of stakeholders, told The Citizen later in an interview that the German firm was looking at the broader picture of working with the government in strengthening the healthcare system through innovative solutions.He said, however, that his team intends to involve more countries on the African continent in furthering the development agenda in health through Merck, which is touted as a global leader in bio-pharmaceuticals. We intend to help advance the state of healthcare in Tanzania. We want to use solutions in medicines and life-science products for patients in sub-Saharan Africa, with the aim of making healthcare more accessible, he said.