The head of South Africa s police watchdog IPID, Robert McBride, was consulting his lawyers on whether he would sue the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for malicious prosecution, he said after appearing in Parliament on Wednesday for the first time since being reinstated to his position. I ll be taking advice on that but it s not definite yet, but I will be taking advice yes, McBride said on the sidelines of a meeting of Parliament s portfolio committee on police. He returned to office in October after the Constitutional Court ruled Police Minister Nathi Nhleko did not have the legal power to suspend him for what the minister claimed was the doctoring of a report by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) on former Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) head Anwa Dramat and the unit s Gauteng boss Shadrack Sibiya. The two Hawks senior officials, according to Nhleko, were involved in the illegal rendition of Zimbabweans. The Constitutional Court gave Parliament 30 days to decide whether to hold a disciplinary hearing. McBride returned to work once that deadline passed. From the onset I ve been quite adamant that there s been no case and the decisions from the National Prosecuting Authority to withdraw the charges is evidence that I was correct from the beginning, he said. McBride said he was now getting on with the job. ALSO READ: Helen Suzman Foundation, FUL press for Shaun Abrahams to be suspended My most pressing concern is to take on complex systemic corruption problems .because if we are able to deal with systemic corruption within SAPS it sends a message because most of the systemic corruption is carried out by senior members and if we re able to effectively deal with that and eventually get prosecutions it will send a message to lower ranks and you will have a trickle down effect and an improvement in ethics and integrity, so that would be my concern at the moment. Mcbride said he was currently busy stabilising the organisation. Asked to comment on whether plans to restructure the IPID by Israel Kgamanyane, the man who acted as executive director of the IPID in his absence, was a bid to get rid of his sympathisers, he said: I don t have sympathisers. I have colleagues and workers and we work on a professional basis together and the so-called restructuring is an issue we are looking into. I m waiting for the handover report from the former acting E.D [executive director] and then we ll deal with issues specifically. Mcbride said his vindication was proof that democracy worked. Where there has been failures in one arms of governance, another one will assist and in our case that was the courts, so the democracy works and that s why the different elements of a democracy is in place to ensure the different checks and balances are kept so there isn t any abuse of power. He did not want to speculate on the reason for his suspension, but said whether it was politically motivated or not was immaterial. It s irrelevant to me if there is, so if it s there I d ignore it. I ve got work to do McBride s R2million legal bill was paid by the Civilian Secretariat for Police, who contracted the lawyers for the case. They want the money back, but McBride said IPID did not ask for or procure the services of the legal firm. For services that we haven t procured we are not going to pay for it, those who procured it must deal with it, said McBride. African News Agency