The latest instalment of our country s racism soap opera sees two white men putting a young black male into a coffin and threatening to close him in and set it alight. Add some assault and the humiliation of Rethabile Victor Mlotshwa is complete. In the two-nation style we have become accustomed to, the conversation on one end of the divide about the incident hovers around white people seeing us as nothing but animals , while the other reckons there has to be a reason they acted like that . This incident is neither the beginning nor the end of the soap opera. We ve seen other episodes of urine-laden meals fed to black workers at Free State University and the horror episodes of a black body fed to lions in Hoedspruit. More episodes will definitely come along soon. But can we claim we are a nation in transition, or are we just two nations forced by history to exist within the same borders? It is common for each of the two sides to invoke the father of the nation, the statesman Nelson Mandela, and his dream of a single and united South Africa when we are faced with barbaric incidents like this. We all agree this is not what he envisioned when he spoke of a united South Africa. ALSO READ: Another racist assault video emerges Yet, more and more, with each incident of black humiliation at the hands of white racists, attitudes harden. No one wants to be part of a nation built upon constant humiliation. It s easy to say the great majority are not like this, these are the works of a few demented right-wing lunatics . But what is the ordinary white South African s contribution to building the nation Mandela and Oliver Tambo envisioned? One that is based on mutual respect for every human being, regardless of their colour? Is it enough to be utterly disgusted by racist incidents like these ones, or is more required? The humiliation every black person feels when viewing footage of one of their own being beaten and forced into a coffin can turn even a pacifist into a bitter person. Justice is the only tonic to that. But this doesn t only refer to legal justice. No. That s a given. This refers to the justice that comes with ordinary white South Africans moving from being utterly disgusted to activists for equality in South Africa. The past two decades have shown us equality in the statute books doesn t translate to everyday life. There are far too many groupings among the privileged who play gatekeeper. Under the guise of preserving their cultural heritage, they keep the majority of the population economically oppressed. We must go beyond the airy-fairy concept of a rainbow nation and get down to the everyday nuts and bolts of eradicating poverty, opening doors to learning without resorting to governing body rules and the courts to frustrate transformation efforts. In Mandela s words: Overcoming poverty is not a task of charity, it is an act of justice. Like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not natural. It is man-made and it can be eradicated by the actions of human beings. Sometimes, it falls on a generation to be great. You can be that great generation. Let your greatness blossom. So yes, amend the laws to make hate crimes punishable by very long jail sentences. Make it extremely unattractive to humiliate another human being just because they re not like you. Sydney Majoko