Speaking at the ceremony at the city hall on Friday night, Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said: We are celebrating a man who lived his life as an example of Ubuntu. The freedom of the city is the highest honour which we can bestow on a person who has lived a life of distinction. We do this because we want to recognise those who, as sons and daughters of our soil, have inspired us through their life s work. Recipients of this prestigious award are those who have changed the course of history, she said. Ndungane travelled all over the world and studied at King s College in London before he returned to South Africa in the early 1980s, where he was posted to St Nicolas Church in Elsies River. He ended his priestly career as archbishop of the Anglian Church of Southern Africa, based in Cape Town. One of the first acts as an archbishop was to lead a pilgrimage of pain and hope to Robben Island an act which recognised that Robben Island would become a beacon of hope for people around the world. Archbishop Emeritus Ndungane has had a significant impact on the lives of people around the world and in Africa, and particularly in Cape Town where he played a key role in the poverty hearings of the late 1990s and the establishment of the Western Cape Religious Leaders Forum. He served as executive director of the Historic Schools Restoration Project and as chairperson of the Council of the University of Cape Town. He has received nine honourary doctorates during his career. During a long and illustrious career, Archbishop Emeritus Ndungane has left an indelible mark on Cape Town and its people and is a worthy recipient of the Freedom of the City of Cape Town in recognition of his service to our city. Your life s work has inspired us and now we need to keep drawing on your example as we try to find our own way out of moments of darkness. From today on, let us all take heart and also strive to be a light, just like our newest Freeman of the City Archbishop Ndungane, De Lille said.