This conversation is misplaced.It is misplaced because any conversation about future technology almost certainly sounds ludicrous in the ears of many Tanzanians and to be fair, many Africans. Sadly, we always hop on the train at the eleventh hour and pride ourselves on the fact that we are in the train. I will risk being seen as the queer fish here by predicting how digital technologies will change the future of our politics.As digital inclusion is steadily being recognised as a measure for development, we are stepping up efforts to get more and more people connected. On 3rd October Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan inaugurated a project that will put public Wi-Fi spots in Dar es Salaam as part of greater efforts to transform Makonda s city into a smart city.The move was well received at least my social media tells me so. I too am optimistic about my hometown getting upgraded into a futuristic city. But before I fully join others and have my head in the cloud (pun), there are a few caveats. Why am I celebrating a new tarmac road while I am not sure of how the cars that will use it will benefit me? My point being, development is never about infrastructure. It is about the gains the infrastructure can bring. As Mwalimu Julius Nyerere said, it is not the development of things, but of people.If I, a humble receiver or user of this service can think about my gains, the giver too must be thinking about their returns. This seems to be ostensibly missing from the government s rhetoric of digital inclusion. Is universal access to the internet an end in itself, or is it a means to an end that Ms Hassan and Mr Makonda are not telling their jubilant addressees?This brings me to an interesting point. Tanzania was among the earlier countries to adopt Facebook s free internet under the Free Basics initiative, also known as Internet.org. A few people have raised concerns over net neutrality , foreseeing the potential inequality that comes with giving the poor a dumbed down version of the internet while a few enjoy full access. Others see it as bowing down to the interests of the massive capitalist establishment that is Facebook. While these are valid concerns, my analysis today will focus on the potential of the internet to determine politics.I draw a bit of inspiration from recent political events. In the wake of the outcome of the November US election, analysts began paying more attention to Mr Donald Trump s campaign strategy. One of the things that are emerging is his campaign team s deployment of a digital data operation known as Battleground Optimizer Path to Victory. Instead of relying on public polls, the team designed a high end data model to study trends, simulate results and this enabled Mr Trump to build a stronger campaign plan.While it is clear that most of the world is astounded by his victory, his genius in using data is something that should be studied and understood, even by our local politicians.CCM particularly had an impressive presence in social media during the last election. But in particular, January Makamba and Zitto Kabwe are among our few politicians who stand out as having a good understanding of the material dynamics. Mr Makamba has been using social media ads to boost his fan base for a relatively long time. Recently, I am seeing aggressively sponsored posts by Mr.Kabwe and I applaud this method of promoting one s ideas rather than one s face or personality. But what is Mr Makamba and Mr Kabwe s end game? And can the internet really become such a formidable political force?Well, stats don t lie. I will not go with most of the sources that peg internet penetration in Tanzania at around 5 percent, as they are based on data that is sometimes as old as 3 years. TCRA s latest Quarterly Communications Statistics Report (June 2016) estimates the number of internet users at around 17 million. But this too is debatable as we ought to look at unique users as opposed to connections.I conservatively estimate the number to be around 30 per cent of the figure by TCRA, assuming one person uses 3 devices to access the internet. We can triangulate this with data from Facebook, the seventh most accessed site in the country according to Amazon s web traffic site, Alexa.com.I am using Facebook because out of the top six sites, it is the only one that has mandatory subscription, hence can tell us the number of users as opposed to visits.I learn from Facebook s audience insights function that in Tanzania, up to 5 million people who are above 18 access the social networking site every month. This already is a sizeable population, and with the current efforts to promote digital inclusion, I can only see the numbers growing into a critical mass. It is therefore in the interest of politicians to begin to study the online population as a demographic trend. For instance, I learn by further analysing the Facebook audience, that about 80 per cent of the monthly users are aged 18 35. This itself is a potential voting bloc, and more blocs can be established by further segmenting the audience by multiple criteria that include, inter alia, sex, interests and location.The ruling party, CCM has obtained comfortable victories since the maiden multiparty election in 1995. However, the last presidential election was relatively close as it was decided by approximately 2.8 million votes. To put it in social media terms, this equals roughly 56 per cent of the number of eligible voters who use Facebook every month.It is not known how the vote was split between voters who are digitally included. This is a function of election polling that I hope pollsters will no longer ignore. But if we assume that every eligible voter who is online turned out to vote, we can run a couple of scenarios to determine how the social media vote would have affected the election outcome.First, assuming the digital vote was split the same way the actual vote was, then CCM s 18 per cent lead translates to around 2.9 million digital voters. Lowassa would have been president by a narrow margin of approximately a hundred thousand votes if he could swing these voters.Also, if the election were a three horse race, and the second runner up won the digital vote, CCM would still emerge victorious but with a meagre 39 per cent of all the valid votes. This would be the first time for CCM to miss the 50 per cent mark, which also means a coalition of the first two runners up would stand a reasonable chance of winning the election.In another scenario, we give the Ukawa coalition a 10 percentage point advantage in the share of online voters because they won Dar es Salaam which has the largest population of internet users. Here, a perfect conversion rate of the online audience by Ukawa would have reduced their margin of loss to about 800,000 votes. The margin reduces further to around 300,000 votes if we split the digital vote among the CCM and Ukawa on a fifty-fifty basis.Much as it utilizes statistics to establish trends, this is analysis is riddled with assumptions. This is particularly because certain key data points are not present. However, the assumptions I create around the missing data points to construct the above scenarios could unlock a plethora of knowledge on how future elections can be won.I am going to make an educated guess that as digital inclusion becomes more and more of a reality, the number of politicians who become converts of the digital revolution will increase. I can clearly see political parties stepping up their efforts to use social media as an outreach platform, and the massive amount of data it generates as a polling and strategy tool.This conversation is not misplaced.Mr Rutenge is the Founder of iDev Tanzania and a graduate student at the London School of Economics