As a precautionary measure, the City of Cape Town has advised residents in St Michaels in Brackenfell of poor water quality due to the possible ingress of sub-standard water from stagnant, previously isolated sections of the pipeline. As such, it may be unsafe to use water for drinking, washing, cooking, brushing teeth, etc, unless it was boiled, mayoral committee member for health Siyabulela Mamkeli said in a statement. To ensure the water was safe, residents should heat water to boiling point and maintain at boiling point for at least one minute. If water could not be boiled, chemical disinfection should be used. Unperfumed common household bleach sodium hypochlorite contains a chlorine compound that will disinfect water. Add at least two drops of liquid bleach per litre of water, but four drops if the water is cloudy. Stir or shake well and let it stand for 30 minutes before use. If no smell or taste of chlorine can be detected at that point, add another dose and wait another 15 minutes before use. Chlorine tablets containing the required dosage for drinking water disinfection could also be obtained from a chemist or supermarket and should be applied as per instructions on the label, Mamkeli said. Three water main bursts had occurred in the vicinity of the Brackenfell railway station and in Old Paarl Road in Brackenfell since last Sunday morning. These bursts necessitated flow reversals in the system and as a result of these reversals, poor quality water from stagnant sections of the pipeline was drawn into the supply lines. Poor water quality was not due to the ingress of sewage into the reticulation system, as had been suggested on various social media and community platforms. The low levels of ammonia in samples taken were not consistent with this claim. The city s water and sanitation department first received complaints of water quality on Wednesday, and the reticulation system had been flushed within the vicinity of these complaints. A broken valve in the closed position was replaced to improve flushing and circulation within the system. However, laboratory results from the city s scientific services branch received on Friday confirmed that there were still pockets of water in the system that did not comply with the drinking water standards. The city was carrying out continual water sampling, testing, flushing, and chlorination processes until the water met the required standards. Consumers would be updated on the status of the water supply in St Michaels, Mamkeli said. ALSO READ: ANC says credit rating an indication of appreciation of government s efforts The city would like to emphasise that the water quality issues described above are limited to the St Michaels area where the water mains bursts occurred. The city has also been experiencing issues with water taste and odour from the Blackheath and Faure water treatment plants, which receive raw water from Theewaterskloof Dam, due to the presence of geosmin in the water, and as such residents in the greater Brackenfell area and surrounds may also notice a difference in their drinking water supply. These residents are assured, however, that geosmin is a naturally occurring compound found in surface waters (rivers and dams) as an organic molecule produced by kinds of algae and bacteria. This compound is responsible for the earthy, musty taste and odour sometimes found in the water and does not pose a health risk. Geosmin is removed using powdered activated carbon in the water treatment process. However, even minute concentrations can still have an effect on taste and smell due to the incredible sensitivity of the human palate to the compound. A recent sample of the water in the area showed a geosmin concentration of a mere 3.4 nanograms (one-thousand-millionth of a gram) per litre, Mamkeli said. African News Agency (ANA)