President Jacob has told the National Assembly that the decision by four major banks to drop the Gupta family as their clients was suspicious and indicated possible collusion. In the hot seat in the Chamber on Wednesday, Zuma said the banks decision to willy nilly close the accounts of the Gupta s Oakbay Investments simultaneously does not look good . What will the investors out there think of coming to invest in South Africa if they think the banks can willingly in a manner [cut financial ties] [It suggests there is] collusion. To any ordinary person that is not an ordinary act. It suggests that there is something suspicious. The banks can t act together in the same manner, he said. Also read: Live report: Presidency considering Zwane s proposal to probe banks Earlier President Jacob Zuma has said government was being responsible in dealing with university fees protests. Answering the first question posed by Inkatha Freedom Party MP Themba Msimang on whether or not consensus had been reached with students over a no-fee policy or no-fee increase, Zuma said the interministerial task team was dealing with the matter. While there would be no free education in 217 and no fee increases for those who qualified, Zuma indicated free education was not tenable. All we are appealing is that the matter is being considered. We should be patient and wait to see what happens.&#8221; He said students weren t being ignored and that money was scarce. Earlier Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) benches were empty before President Jacob Zuma stepped up to the podium to answer questions in the National Assembly. The party&#8217;s members have been known to leave parliament on the grounds that they do not recognise Zuma as fit for office. Despite the usual suspects causing disruptions, speaker Baleka Mbete set some ground rules. EFF MPs have argued he is an illegitimate and unworthy president in light of, among others, using taxpayers money for nonsecurity upgrades to his home and the recent public protector report on alleged state capture of government by the Gupta family. Members concerned claim that they do not recognise the president. It is indeed the constitutional duty of the president to account to the House. He is here today to do exactly that, Mbete said.