The African National Congress Women s League (ANCWL) on Friday condemned rape culture at the country s institutions of higher learning. National spokesperson Thoko Xasa said the ANCWL had noted the reported case of sexual violence at the University of Witwatersrand, where a case had been reported over three weeks ago but little action had been taken against the alleged offender. Xasa said: In South Africa, all men and women have equal protection under the law, and therefore the law enforcement agencies need to ensure that these reports are thoroughly investigated and perpetrators face the full wrath of the law. Wits said on Friday that the alleged victim had not yet opened a case with the police. Xasa said the increasing rate of sexual violence cases in institutions of higher learning was concerning. The University of Stellenbsoch had about nine reported cases over the past five years, while Rhodes University had 13 reported cases between 2011 and 2015. Xasa said the women s league reiterated its 12th Conference Resolutions of advocating for the strengthening women s safety and security in communities and its continued support for the victims of violence and abuse. ALSO READ: SRC president not a registered student, WSU says We call on the management in institutions of higher learning to ensure that safety and security measures are tightened. The universities must involve law enforcement agencies in dealing with rape cases; internal mediation will never resolve the scourge of gender-based violence in institutions. &#8220;As we approach the 16 Days of Activism Against Women &amp; Children, we call on the members of society to join hands with the ANCWL in raising awareness of the negative impacts of violence on women and children and rid society of sexual violence permanently, said Xasa. Xasa said the safety of women and children was the responsibility of all society. Expose sexual violence and report incidents to law enforcement agencies. Let us all move together towards a safer South Africa. &#8211; African News Agency