The demand for water-wise properties, equipped with boreholes, without lawns or with small gardens, has skyrocketed. Searches for borehole water and eco estates have also increased steadily since the beginning of 2016. Water restrictions in Johannesburg and Cape Town has further driven the demand. Having an alternative water or energy source on a property is an excellent selling point in tough economic times. Not only do consumers hope to conserve water and the environment, they are hoping to reduce their bills. This is especially true for Gauteng, where residents have frequently been left without water in recent months. The problem is exasperated by the drought, and by rapid expansion. Because homes are long-term investments, prospective buyers want to ensure the homes they buy will have sustainable, affordable access to water and power over the next 20 to 50 years. Eco estates have risen dramatically in their popularity, although not all properties billed as green live up to their name. There were about five big eco estates making waves in 2008, compared to 50 in 2010. Today we re seeing hundreds of green or eco estates being marketed, although not all of them are as sustainable as one would think. True eco estates do not have artificial landscaping that requires the use of irrigation systems (such as golf courses and vineyards), contain no more than five homes per hectare and is subjected to an environmental management plan that includes erosion reports and game and bird counts. But that s not to say these estates aren t green some spend a good deal of money maintaining natural flora and fauna. They would be considered eco-sensitive. This means that golf or equestrian estates marketed as eco estates don t fit the bill in the truest sense of the phrase, although they are still greener than the average development. There are several property developers that specialise in building green homes for individuals as well as for larger properties. Homeowners can add value to their properties by investing in a rainwater-harvesting system. Even a small two-bedroom home can collect 23 000 litres of water a year, at an initial cost of R40 000. A grey water system will cost about R15 000. These investments can cut your bill by 75% and will drive up the value of your property significantly. There are also systems that connect to showers and washing machines, collecting the water used for the garden. While a well-established and maintained garden is always considered an asset, home owners should also slowly start adding water-wise indigenous plants to their homes, eliminating lawns or making use of pots to reduce water usage. Not everyone has the time to maintain a garden, and with recent restrictions a lawn can become a hassle. An indigenous garden can be lush and colourful and much easier to maintain, making it attractive to the young urban market and retirees. There are currently over a thousand properties on Gumtree billed as eco-friendly, sustainable or eco-sensitive, more than double than in previous years.