Universal Music Group, the world leader in music-based entertainment, announced on Wednesday that multiple award-winning Thandiswa Mazwai is now signed to Universal Music South Africa. Managing Director of Universal Music South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa Sipho Dlamini said they were thrilled to welcome Mazwai to the Universal family. This is such an honour; it s been a pleasure watching you grow into your space and see the ease in which you occupy it. We are delighted to participate in your project; Belede is an amazing album; we wanted to do a deal as soon as we heard it and this is a beautiful reflection of where Thandiswa is in her journey and the message she wants to share with us, Dlamini said. Dlamini said Mazwai was equally elated, having been in the industry for so long. I ve known the team here from when I started with Bongo Maffin in 1998, so it s just comfortable. I m happy that Universal music will make sure that everyone gets to hear the amazing music, he said. Dlamini said Belede, a jazz tribute album named after Mazwai s late mother, is her third album and also her first studio album in seven years. Making this album was a sonic delight and I feel blessed to have been able to sing some of these songs and pay tribute to some of the most rebellious and monumental musicians of my time, said Dlamini. He said there were many reasons why artists, especially those touted as the voices of their generations, may want to revisit anthems. In Mazwai s case, the political temperature of this post-apartheid dispensation calls for this decisive move. I ve reimagined these songs for a new space and time, and what s interesting is that even though a lot of these songs were written as rebel music against apartheid, they still make sense in South Africa now. They still have the same impact, ask the same questions and evoke the same actions, Dlamini said. He said Mazwai co-created the album with a core trio of drummer Ayanda Sikade, pianist Nduduzo Makhathini and bassist Herbie Tsoaeli, with years of history between them to do an impeccable job of contributing virtuoso playing while anticipating Mazwai s vocal crests and waves. The album will be available for pre-order on iTunes on Friday with her first single Jikijela available as an instant download on iTunes and Apple Music; the official album release date is 25th November on all digital music platforms worldwide, as well as through Musica stores countrywide. The public is invited to celebrate with the legendary singer when she launches Belede on Thursday 24th of November at the Soweto Theatre. African News Agency