Albinos are dragged from their homes, abducted and brutally murdered for their body parts, Zululand Observer reports. Even after death, their bodies are subjected to grave robberies, with their bones stolen and sold for muthi concoctions and rituals. These attacks include mutilation, violence and cases of asylum-seeking. The shocking surge in killings of people with albinism has elevated serious concerns across the country, especially in KwaZulu-Natal. With mostly Zululand tainted by reports of those who have disappeared without a trace, a campaign to conduct a war against these barbaric slayings will be held in Empangeni next month. The Stop Albino Killings campaign is spearheaded by traditional healer Dr Musa Zulu as part of the Maz Jikeleza Tour. It aims to dismiss myths about albinos. It s not our practice or our culture. People must not hide behind culture and religion to continue with their evil ways. These are murders and have nothing to do with culture or religion, Zulu explained READ MORE: More action needed to debunk myths about albinism The Maz Jikeleza Tour will be held at Imbizo Hall on Sunday, 4 December, and this time local corporates and other traditional healers will join the fight. &#8220;With the number of attacks on the increase, we need to pull together and fight this to make our communities safe. &#8220;Together we can educate people and make sure they understand. The purpose of his campaign is to dismiss myths that albino body parts can be used to make traditional medicine,&#8221; said Metropolitan branch manager Lindiwe Dube. Hundreds of people with albinism are abducted and killed in South Africa every year. These attacks are linked to a growing demand for body parts prized in black magic to bring good fortune. Incidents include the abduction of a four-year-old boy from uMkhobose area outside eSikhaleni this year, as well as a woman who was recently arrested for attempting to sell children with albinism to a sangoma in eManguzi. The persecution of people with albinism is based on the belief that certain body parts of albino people can transmit magical powers. Such superstitions are present especially in rural areas, and as a result, people with albinism have been persecuted, killed and dismembered, and their graves dug up and desecrated. &#8211; Caxton News Service