Samsung Electronics has agreed to buy Harman International Industries, a market leader in connected car solutions, for $8 billion, it was announced on Monday. The deal will give Samsung a significant presence in the large and rapidly growing market for connected technologies, particularly automotive electronics, which has been a strategic priority for the South Korean multinational. More than 30 million vehicles are equipped with Harman s connected car and audio systems, including embedded infotainment, telematics, connected safety and security. Around 65% of Harman s $7 billion sales in the year to the end of September were automotive-related, and its order backlog for this market at the end of June was about $24 billion. Harman s experience designing and integrating sophisticated in-vehicle technologies, as well as its long-term relationships with most of the world s largest automakers, will create significant growth opportunities for the combined business by enabling it to leverage Samsung s expertise in connected mobility, semiconductors, user experience, displays and its global distribution channels, Samsung said in a statement. Oh-Hyun Kwon, Samsung Electronics vice-chairperson and chief executive officer, said: Harman perfectly complements Samsung in terms of technologies, products and solutions joining forces is a natural extension of the automotive strategy we have been pursuing for some time. The statement said that Harman s owned and licensed brands, including JBL and Harman Kardon and Bang &amp; Olufsen, will greatly enhance the competitiveness of Samsung s mobile, display, virtual reality and wearable products to deliver a fully differentiated audio and visual experience for customers . Young Sohn, president and chief strategy officer of Samsung Electronics, added: The vehicle of tomorrow will be transformed by smart technology and connectivity in the same way that simple feature phones have become sophisticated smart devices over the past decade. Samsung will gain access to Harman s 8 000 software designers and engineers who are unlocking the potential of the IoT market . The combination of the two companies will deliver end-to-end services for the automotive market through the convergence of design, data and devices. Dinesh Paliwal, Harman chairperson, president and chief executive, said: Partnerships and scale are essential to winning over the long term in automotive as demand for robust connected car and autonomous driving solutions increases at a rapid pace. This transaction will bring Harman and Samsung s complementary strengths together to accelerate innovation in this space, he said. The purchase price represents a premium of 28% on Harman s closing price on November 11 and a 37% premium to its volume weighted average price for the previous 30 days. Samsung expects to use cash on hand to fund the deal. The transaction, which is subject to conditions including regulatory approvals, is expected to close in mid-2017.