Arusha will next week be the venue of a host of activities relating to the 10th anniversary of the African Court on Human and People s Rights (AfCHPR), a quasi-judicial organ of the African Union (AU) with headquarters in the tourist city. It is about a decade since the Court relocated to Arusha and operationalised its activities and there has been a number of achievements. However, it is facing a host of challenges, according to its immediate former President JUDGE AUGUSTINO RAMADHANI. These have to be sorted out to enable it undertake its mandate effectively. He shared his views with our Arusha-based writer ZEPHANIA UBWANI shortly before the end of his tenure in September. Excepts:What have been the major achievements of the Court?I would say among the major achievements is that 30 AU member states have ratified the Protocol that established the Court. The last ratification by Chad was classic. We talked with the President of Chad Idris Deby in our final sensitisation mission in December last year and the President immediately promised us to ratify in January this year at the AU Summit. He did just that! This was a remarkable because the case can be used to show that the sensitisation visits are not a waste of time and funds. The Chad incident, therefore, can be used to prove the need for such visits.Can you describe other achievements made?We have not been very successful in depositing declarations and, indeed, one declaration has been withdrawn. But I dare say that is also an achievement. The Court has made a ruling that such withdrawals have no retrospective effect. They will only affect future applications. There exists a Statue for Legal Aid Fund which came into being on January 31st this year. There is also a promise by the former President Jakaya Kikwete for Tanzania to donate $100,000 which can flag off the fund. Another area where the Court is proud is the number of applications (cases or suits filed) and requests for advisory opinions. Admittedly many of those applications are from Tanzania. But it is remarkable that within 10 years of the coming into operation of the Court, there is a problem of back log and not scarcity of work load.What have been the major challenges facing the Court?We have a host of challenges ranging from lack of political will by some AU members to fully support this organ, staff shortage and funding problem. Let me start with a problem which has much to do with the willingness of AU member states to support their organ. Some countries, in fact, more than three quarters of the countries have not yet deposited declarations under Article 34 (6) which allow individuals and NGOs to access the Court directly. Human rights are for individuals and unless individuals can access the Court directly, then the Court is not what it should be. There is also the challenge of ratifications but I believe that will slowly be sorted out. The enforcement of decisions of the Court depends mostly on the political will of states.We presented a paper to the policy organs of the AU suggesting means of ensuring enforcement but the efforts have been barren of results so far. We are also having a problem of grossly insufficient staff members. For instance, there are only eleven legal officers who include the Registrar and Deputy Registrar. It is difficult to operate a continental Court of law with such a number of legal officers. This is a Court of law and so there should be more legal officers, In other words, there is a dire need of staff.You mentioned the financial constraints. Can you elaborate?To be frank, the budget allocated to the Court is inadequate. This financial year (2016/17), for instance, the Court was given only $10 million. This means the Court had to forego buying badly needed vehicles so as to use the money hire additional staff. As I said earlier, some of our development partners have stopped supporting some of our programmes.These include GIZ which has been funding the sensitisation visits across the continent stopped funding in December 2015. The European Union has agreed to sponsor only three of such missions. The state of office accommodation leaves much to be desired. To demonstrate the extent of the problem, a number of judges share chambers. Other members of staff are packed like sardines, as the English people say.In your opinion, what should be done to overcome some of these challenges?Increase the budget, employ more staff -both legal and non-legal. The Court should have its own permanent premises. For this we beseech the Tanzanian government, the host country to speed up building the premises.What about the low ratification and declaration rate by the AU member states?The one-on-one meetings between the President of the Court and the heads of state should be facilitated. When I assumed office, that is what I intended to do. But I failed miserably to have audiences with the Heads of State. The one appointment which materialised was that of Chad and I have narrated the results. I hope that my successor will be able to have such appointments.Do you think something should be done to improve the protection of human rights in Africa?Exactly. But the key factor is on the laps of the heads of state. The flouting of human rights is mostly done in the name of security, tranquility and peace. There is no true peace without the observance of human rights.