Felipe Aguilar may be a little-known figure on these shores, but the 42-year-old Chilean is held in high enough esteem by his fellow golfers that they voted him on to the European Tour Tournament Committee four years ago, and on Thursday he showed his on-course capabilities as he vaulted into the lead early in the first round of the Nedbank Golf Challenge at Sun City. Aguilar went out in the eighth group of the day and carefully plotted his way around the renowned Gary Player Country Club course in four-under-par 68, a round that featured five birdies and just one bogey. He was sharing the lead with Englishman Ross Fisher, who is famous for his ability off the tee a vital quality to have at Sun City and who birdied the 10th hole to join Aguilar on four-under. Even though Aguilar is making his first appearance in the Nedbank Golf Challenge, the importance of avoiding mistakes on this tough 7 162-metre layout has been inculcated in him. The course wasn&#8217;t playing very easy. It&#8217;s very difficult to judge distance because of the altitude, so I&#8217;m quite happy with today&#8217;s round. The rough is tricky, especially around the greens. You need a really good lie around the green or you&#8217;re absolutely dead. So you have to be a little lucky there, but the course is in great shape, and we play a very long course. I know there are tough holes ,and I just try to not make mistakes, big mistakes. Sometimes there are a couple holes here that you just try to make birdies on another hole. I try to be very strategic, I don&#8217;t go for every single hole out here. It worked out today, and hopefully it will work out for the next three days, Aguilar said after his round. South Africans George Coetzee and Jaco van Zyl were in the tie for third place on three-under with Frenchman Victor Dubuisson, Richie Ramsay of Scotland, Korean Jeunghun Wang and Australia s Scott Hend. The latter two were coming towards the end of their rounds, while the other four were in the clubhouse. Coetzee was in the lead early on as he eagled the second hole and added birdies on the fourth and fifth holes, but a double-bogey on the par-four eighth put him back in the pack. Coetzee claimed another eagle on the 14th hole, but came in with a bogey on the last to slip back to three-under-par. There were a couple of loose shots in there and a lot of scrambling, but I felt I capitalised on the holes where I hit good shots, and I m quite happy with my scorecard. It was a bit windy out there, and it swirls which makes it quite tough. You need a really good tee shot here, and the wind makes it difficult to judge, Coetzee said.