Dar es Salaam. Cosmas Cheka, one of the country s top super featherweight boxers, yesterday came up against a brick wall in his attempt to win the Universal Boxing Organisation (UBO) title in Hungary.Cheka, who had bragged to clinch the WBO Europe belt, lost by a unanimous decision to Hungarian Zoltan Kovacs in the lively 10-round fight.The judges scorecards read 96-94, 96-94, 98-92 in favour of the Hungarian at Lakeside Hotel - Conference Hall, Szekesfehervar.The fight started lively with both boxers looking for an early knockout victory. However, no one managed to land a killer punch until the 10th round.Cheka and Kovacs s fight was evenly contested and the belt could have gone either side.Speaking after fight, Cheka expressed his disappointment with judges decisions, saying they favoured the home boxer. I am not happy with the judges decisions. I was the better boxer in the ring, said Cheka after the fight. It is always very difficult to win on away soil. You just have to knock out your opponent otherwise you cannot win. This is very discouraging. His manager, Juma Ndambile, congratulated him for a spirited fight throughout the 10 rounds and sympathised with him over the judges decision, but called on him to focus on the next fight. Ndambile said complaining will not change anything as the decisions the judges make are irreversible. Cheka fought very well. I believe that he outscored the Hungarian, but the final decision didn t reflect the fight. It was a clear victory for my boxer, said Ndambile via telephone. However, our boxers should get used to away fights. Sometimes you don t get what you deserve. Cheka should put the disappointment behind him and move on. He is supposed to go back and train harder. The best way to wain these fights is through knockouts only. I am confident that he will come back stronger. It was the second time for Cheka to lose an international fight.Cheka, who travelled by bus to Windhoek last month, suffered a technical knockout loss to Namibian Paulus Moses at Windhoek Country Club Resort, Windhoek in Namibia. It was a World Boxing Organisation (WBO) Africa lightweight title fight.