Lonmin on Monday pointed to its reorganisation completed during the first half of the year as it reported underlying operating profit of $7 million in the year to the end of September, up from a loss of $134 million in the prior year. The miner said in a statement that the reorganisation had improved profitability and the business was now cash flow positive after capital expenditure despite the continuing low pricing environment for platinum group metals (PGM). The reorganisation had resulted in 5 433 employees and contractors leaving the business between June 30, 2015, and March 31, the statement said. A further 1 428 employees had been re-skilled and redeployed into vacant, more productive roles. Chief executive offier Ben Magara said the company had come a long way during 2016. READ MORE: Qwabe says he made billions for Whitey Basson s Shoprite We strengthened our balance sheet and renewed our bank facilities, closed unprofitable shafts, reorganised the business without labour disruptions, reduced costs and enhanced profitability, he said. We are now well-placed to drive essential and sustained improvements in productivity. Sales of 735 747 platinum ounces had exceeded sales guidance of 700 000 platinum ounces. Revenue came in at $1.1 billion, down from $1.2 billion the year before. Lonmin said the US dollar PGM prices achieved were significantly lower than the prior year despite the platinum price steadily rising since January, reversing the downward trend in the prior year. The statement added that Lonmin had reduced costs by R1.3 billion during the period under review, exceeding a target of R700 million by 86%. Still, the total loss for the year was US$400 million, down from US$1.9 billion a year before. The statement from Lonmin the company at the centre of the labour dispute at Marikana that ended with the deaths of 41 miners at the hands of the police also recorded the peaceful and non-disruptive conclusion of a multi-year wage agreement , which, it said, reflected a maturing relationship with the unions and employees. I am also pleased that we signed a multi-year wage agreement without labour or production disruption, Magara said. We have now repositioned the business, not only to withstand the current low PGM price environment, but also to seize opportunities to maximise value for shareholders and all our stakeholders. &#8211; African News Agency