The leader of Nigeria&#8217;s Synagogue Church of All Nations, &#8220;Prophet&#8221; TB Joshua, has been involved in something of a frantic public relations scramble to explain how he appeared to have incorrectly prophesied that Hillary Clinton would win the US election. Before the election of Donald Trump, Joshua prophesied on Facebook that the winner would be a woman: Ten days ago, I saw the new President of America with a narrow win. The new President will be facing several challenges over many issues, including: passing bills, attempts to possibly pass a vote of no confidence on the new President. The boat of the new President will be rocked. By the way, in order not to keep you in suspense, what I frankly saw is a woman. ALSO READ: Oops! TB Joshua prophesied a Clinton victory In the immediate aftermath of the election, he hastily deleted the Facebook post and released a statement attempting to explain that he had only meant the popular vote in the US, which Clinton did indeed win. She did not get enough of the votes through the Electoral College, which works on a state-by-state system, which is what is required to actually take the White House. The overall popular vote means nothing. Joshua was perhaps relying on the same polling agencies that everyone else did, and they all got it badly wrong. However, he claimed his source had been religious foresight. Another Nigerian prophet, Emmanuel Ameh, had also prophesied that he saw protests, violence and riots after the victory of Hillary Clinton. Donald Trump will not accept defeat. Perhaps in reaction to the fact that Joshua&#8217;s first attempts to convince the public that he really still is a prophet haven&#8217;t been going all that well, Joshua has now taken a different tack. He has now said, according to The Guardian in Nigeria, that his overturned prophecy in fact confirmed the power of prayer. Joshua, who reportedly spoke at a special Sunday service at his church s headquarters in Ikotun Egbe, Lagos, told the congregation he had received many emails from some Americans confirming that his prophecy on the election had spurred them to intense prayers. God had apparently then listened to them. He turned to the Bible for examples of where this had happened before. He compared the US presidential election s outcome to the story of the biblical Jonah, who prophesied that God would destroy the city of Nineveh within 40 days, but that prophecy was averted by the sincere prayers of the inhabitants of the city. Does this imply that, in Joshua&#8217;s view, the election of Clinton would have unleashed absolute calamity that would have wiped America off the map? Because complete doom was certainly what had been foretold for Nineveh. Thousands of people who heard my prophecy prayed to God, they fasted and prayed that God should change the prophecy. That a prophecy was disclosed and did not come to pass does not mean that it is not authentic, The Guardian quoted him as saying. Twitter has been reacting with disdain to TB Joshua ever since the election results were confirmed. Church members today when TB Joshua tried to explain who the female president was pic.twitter.com/BM6cBgW8g7 &mdash; Gitz (@iGitz_) November 13, 2016 TB Joshua: When I said I saw a female president I meant Melania Trump, I saw her in white house Church members: pic.twitter.com/UdwZkYvXMD &mdash; Gitz (@iGitz_) November 13, 2016 TB Joshua today in church trying to explain the female president he saw. pic.twitter.com/3XRwPlJrL2 &mdash; Blessed Child (@Skiwo) November 13, 2016 TB Joshua says when he spoke of Hillary Clinton winning the elections; he was referring to the popular vote &amp; that people misunderstood him. pic.twitter.com/JPrZwZ85i7 &mdash; Olwethu Sipuka (@osipuka) November 14, 2016