Former public protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela, Communications Minister Faith Muthambi and the so-called SABC 8 were on Tuesday confirmed as witnesses to testify before parliament s ad hoc committee probing the fitness of the broadcaster s board to exercise clean cooperative governance over the broadcaster. ALSO READ: Mahlobo s rhino horn trafficking accuser goes into hiding &#8211; report The parliamentary special committee met for the first time on Tuesday in the wake of weekend reports of death threats against the eight SABC journalists and the resignation of two more board members, leaving its defiant chairperson, Mbulaheni Maguvhe, as the only non-executive member left. SABC board member Mbulaheni Maguvhe with Communications minister Faith Muthambi during the SABC board&#8217;s parliament meeting on October 05, 2016 in Cape Town, South Africa. (Photo by Gallo Images / Beeld / Lulama Zenzile) Details of Nomvuyo Mhlakaza and Aaron Tshidzumba resignations at the weekend emerged during the Democratic Alliance s (DA) high court application to set aside the appointment of controversial SABC employee, Hlaudi Motsoeneng, to chief executive for corporate affairs after the Supreme Court of Appeal rejected a review of a superior court s decision invalidating his appointment in his previously post as chief operating officer (COO). Former SABC chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Picture: Michel Bega MPs resolved to ask for witnesses&#8217; protection for anybody on the list of 30-plus people it planned to call to testify. The proposal came from members of the committee from across the political spectrum, with the African National Congress Patrick Chauke telling newly elected chairperson Vincent Smith: You must have that meeting with the SAPS as a matter of urgency before the end of the day. The DA s Phumzile van Damme said the eight needed protection from people with mafia tendencies . The eight, who were suspended for questioning the SABC s contentious editorial policy to ban visuals of protests, are also pursuing a Constitutional Court challenge against what is widely regarded as censorship at the broadcaster. Smith also agreed that where witnesses felt fearful of testifying in public, they should be allowed to give evidence in camera. I think we have a strong enough case. It is about making sure that everyone feels free to come and testify. The committee named parliamentary law adviser Thuthuzeli Vanara as evidence leader. When Governance and Ethics Fail In 2014 Madonsela s report When Governance and Ethics Fail recommended that the SABC board institute corrective action against the dishonest Motsoeneng after she found he had misrepresented his qualifications, abused his power and improperly conducted appointments. Madonsela also found that Motsoeneng irregularly and rapidly increased the salaries of various staff members, resulting in the state broadcaster footing an unprecedented salary bill escalation of R29 million. Communications Minister Faith Muthambi and Deputy Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams share a light moment during the Department of Communications budget vote at the National Assembly. (Photo: GCIS) The former public protector s report was met with scant regard from Muthambi, who, instead, appointed him to the post in a permanent capacity. The committee also agreed to request the minutes and documents relating to the board s decision to remove Rachel Kalidass, Ronnie Lubisi and the late Hope Zinde as members as well as those who dealt with decisions on the appointment of Motsoeneng as COO. The committee was mandated to conduct an inquiry into the fitness of the three members of the SABC board to hold office. They were left after Krish Naidoo and Musi Mavuso resigned last month, in part in protest against the decision to reappoint Motsoeneng in another top position after the courts overruled Muthambi s decision. ALSO READ: SA may sidestep junk status Questions were raised during the committee s meeting about what would happen if Maguvhe stepped down before the inquiry formally began. Smith said he would argue that it did not. Although if he did resign, analysts believed the committee would need to get a fresh mandate from the National Assembly. Maguvhe is on record as saying the inquiry would not prompt him to tender his resignation. The committee scheduled its next meeting for November 29 and will hold hearings until parliament rises on December 9, or longer if needed, Smith said. It must hand a final report to the National Assembly on February 15 next year.