Civil rights group AfriForum, has instructed its legal team to investigate options in its response to EFF leader Julius Malema s utterances this week over white people, land disposition and the occupation of it by black people. This, as Malema heads to a Bloemfontein court next week for criminal charges laid by AfriForum, similar to those he faced in the Newcastle Magistrate s Court in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday over land grab statements he allegedly made separately. It was there AfriForum charges that Malema said inter alia that he wanted to disturb white people s peace, that all land in South Africa belonged to black people and that this land should be taken from white people without compensation . Malema is also of the opinion that black people own the fish in the sea, as well as the mountains, the big five, trees, diamonds and platinum. He further made various other statements against white people, its deputy CEO Ernst Roets said. It is evident that Malema drives a populist agenda and that he does not heed the realities that South Africa faces, or the sustainability of his proposed solutions. His only priority is his own political career. ALSO READ: Hofmeyr says your arse to Malema over allowance to let us live a little longer Malema was recorded to have told a gathering in Newcastle following is appearance that white people have been swimming in a pool of privilege . &#8220;They have been enjoying themselves because they always owned our land. We, the masses our peace was disturbed by white man s arrival They killed our people during land disposition.&#8221; They found peaceful Africans here. They killed them they slaughtered them like animals. He then charged that we are not calling for the slaughtering of white people at least for now . This, as other parts of his speech had been followed by loud cheers. What we are calling for is for peaceful occupation of the land and we don t owe anyone apologies about that, Malema continued. The land must be returned into the hands of the people. ALSO READ: Black nation wants the land now Malema Malema, standing by on his utterances whereby he urges people to occupy land added, that he was not scared of prison . If it means going to prison for telling you to take the land, so be it. I am not scared of prison.&#8221; Sobukwe we prepared to die for the land. Mandela was prepared to die for the land. Chris Hani was prepared to die for the land. Steve Biko wanted the return of the land into the hands of the rightful owners. Revolution had also come with disturbing the peace, he said. White people, they are from heaven no one dares touch white people You touch a white people you will go to jail You are subjects of white people, even under the ANC even under the so-called democracy. You are subjects. You are servants of white people .No white man shall be served by me, Malema said. Revolution was about making those comfortable, uncomfortable , he added. Revolution is about disturbing the peace of those who are swimming in a peaceful environment through exploitation of the working class. Its about making those who are uncomfortable, comfortable. In your own country, in your own land. Peace belongs to you. 