A self-confessed rhino horn trafficker who made criminal allegations against State Security Minister David Mahlobo is reportedly fearing for his life and has gone into hiding , TimesLive reported on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Why link you to a parlour, Minister Mahlobo? Staff of Guan Jiang Guang, the owner of the Nelspruit-based Jinxu-Chinese massage parlour, confirmed that their Chinese employer Guan had gone into hiding following the broadcast of a documentary by Qatari news network Al Jazeera at the weekend exposing the illegal rhino horn trade in South Africa. In the documentary, Guan is covertly recorded saying he had a close connection with Mahlobo and claiming that the minister s wife did business with him. On Monday, Mahlobo denied the allegations against him and said that he had indeed been a customer at the massage parlour but it wasn&#8217;t linked to any connections with rhino poaching. He said that the only reason he&#8217;d been photographed at the parlour was because he had been getting a manicure. His spokesperson, Brian Dube, said in a statement the minister had noted with grave concern and disappointment the unfounded and slanderous allegations made against him in an Al Jazeera&#8217;s documentary as Sunday&#8217;s publications within the country. Mahlobo has asked Mpumalanga Police Commissioner Bethuel Zuma to immediately investigate all allegations made against him in the documentary and take action against Guan for illegal rhino poaching activity. He also wants Zuma to look into claims by Guan that he employs illegal immigrants and circumvents immigration laws. Finally, Minister Mahlobo has engaged a legal team to investigate possible defamation action against Al Jazeera, the publications, Mr Guang and Mr Morgan for defamation and the reputational damage that this documentary and newspaper articles have caused to the State Security Ministry and his family. Dube said. ALSO READ: I was just having my nails done, says Mahlobo Meanwhile, on Monday the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI), better known as the Hawks, confirmed they were investigating links between Guang and Mahlobo. The police priority crime fighting unit said the matter had been referred to them by the provincial police commissioner.