ANC stalwarts who are calling for President Jacob Zuma to stand down should be in possession of moral authority. This is especially true for those who no longer have political clout. Among them are admirable leaders. What they are doing is commendable. They are on the right side of history. If they succeed, they will have done our nation a service. However, I was disappointed to see Cheryl Carolus as one of the faces of this movement. This sentiment derives from a personal encounter, whose telling may explain my reasoning. There is also the matter of the fortune she made from BEE deals in the Thabo Mbeki era. Some years ago I was seated in a northern-suburbs sports shop, trying on a new pair of running shoes. A salesman was talking to me while offering a partially laced-up shoe. Without any hint of politeness, Carolus barged in and demanded his attention, which she commandeered until she had been served and left the shop. He had to drop everything, leaving me unattended. Flabbergasted, I sat there, unshod, mouth open. Carolus obviously believed she was more important than anyone in sight. Yet, even if I had been the most humble customer, she should not have treated either of us in such a manner. ALSO READ: What the cover of You told me about normalising Trump At that time, as a newspaper editor and former press club chair, I had enjoyed close encounters with VIPs from Nelson Mandela downwards. Not one had ever appeared as selfish as Carolus did on that day. Not one. Fast-forward to 2016. In my view, Zuma s cardinal flaw is selfishness. It s at the heart of the corruption allegations. It is evident in his priorities. For example, in a column on Monday, Justice Malala contrasted Zuma s petty, self-obsessed weekend speeches with one by Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas. Remember, Jonas turned down more than R600 million in Saxonwold bribes. That s what the Guptas allegedly offered him if he would be a stooge finance minister. Jonas s selflessness makes Zuma s selfishness more glaring. So now we have a campaign that claims the moral high ground, casting judgment on Zuma s flaws. There are enough people of stature on board. They really don t need Carolus. In 2005 the Mail &amp; Guardian reported that she and others had acquired 26% of the world s biggest diamond producer, De Beers, in a deal worth R3.8 billion. In today s language that would make her a (captured) beneficiary of white monopoly capital . Those who profit excessively from struggle credentials are on shaky ground when lecturing Zuma, who was once the least well-off in Mbeki s Cabinet. Multimillionaire Smuts Ngonyama voiced a shared truth when he said: I didn t join the struggle to become poor. Carolus was given a string of top jobs, including high commissioner in London, SAA board chair and SA Tourism CEO. All this prominence evidently went to her head. She places herself above mere mortals in a way that even Madiba would not have done. We don t need selfish role models leading the charge against Zuma. Leave it to those who epitomise selfless struggle, if there ever was such a thing.