Vicky Finnemore, Benoni SPCA manager in East Rand called it a &#8220;house of horrors&#8221; after receiving a complaint of animals being neglected at a property in Fairleads and inspectors sent to the house on November 10,&#8221; Benoni City Times reports. Some of the dead snakes found in the Fairleads home. The owner of the animals wasn t there but we left a warning, said Finnemore. The following day, after receiving no response from the owner, the society obtained a warrant and returned to the property. When entering the home, our staff found dozens of neglected snakes and spiders, as well as dead hedgehogs and terrapins, Finnemore said. READ MORE: Cruelty to animals cases increasing-SPCA The mess inside the house was shocking and the tanks holding the reptiles and arachnids (spiders) were beyond putrid. Finnemore said a cage holding three dead African Pygmy hedgehogs was found in one of the rooms. Dead snakes were picked up off the floors and counters of the house and over a dozen glass tanks were found, with dead spiders in them, she explained. The spiders had died from dehydration and although these creatures are feared by most, they re still living beings that may have suffered until their dying day.&#8221; Most of the snakes were suffering with respiratory problems from incorrect temperatures in their tanks. She said these type of animals can survive longer than most in harsh conditions, meaning they likely suffered for long before dying. glass tanks holding snakes and other animals, in the Fairleads home. Glass tanks holding snakes and other animals, in the Fairleads home. Amongst the animals that were confiscated were: Burmese pythons Ball pythons Red tail boas Dumeril s boas A grey rat snake Carpet pythons Fresh water lobsters Red knee tarantulas Chaco golden knee tarantulas A Goliath bird eater tarantula Fire leg tarantulas Curly hair tarantulas A giant blonde tarantula Chilean rose tarantulas Western diamondback rattlesnakes. According to Finnemore, around 30 animals were found dead. The owner of the animals wasn t present at the time of the confiscation and we haven t heard from him since, she said. They are in a place of safety now. The Benoni SPCA will open a case of cruelty to animals. &#8211; Caxton News Service