The students are coming! WhatsApp pictures had alerted staff to students marching towards the Wits Business School during my visit recently as a visiting professor and I made a hasty exit to avoid being locked in. The student radicalism almost made me nostalgic for my own militant protester days against the Springboks 45 years ago. It also reminded me of England s system of student fees and university finance which is unfair, discriminatory and dysfunctional. (Wales and Scotland have different policies but much the same applies there, too.) My answer is to replace it with a graduate tax a small addition to income tax paid by all graduates during their working lives. The no-fee demand from some protesting students ignores the reality that South Africa, more than England, has other much greater and pressing priorities for public spending, not least because a university degree is a privilege and normally leads to higher earnings. It also ignores the reality that there are so many more students than in the past more than 400 000 since apartheid ended. The dispute is nothing to do with decolonisation, as I heard some angry students claim. It is about tough choices: for government, for universities and for students themselves. Quite apart from being unfair and discriminatory to all but students with the richest parents who pay off the fees any way, the current system of tuition fees in England is unsustainable. Students are emerging from universities with mountainous debts, preventing them getting loans for cars or houses, and universities are increasingly short of funds. It seems to me the same is true of South Africa. English fees are more than R160 000 annually and are a serious disincentive for some to go into higher education, especially those who are poor or mature. Nearly half English students default on repaying their fees, increasing government borrowing and debt. It has been estimated that around the midpoint of this century, when the UK s 30-year Treasury rule kicks in and the debt is written off, fully 90 billion of the 200 billion student support funded by the Treasury would remain unpaid. So, could the current English system of funding university fees (and also student maintenance loans) with a tax paid by graduates be fairer and better? Graduates could make a contribution based on their salary, with the rate of tax rising across bands in much the same way that income tax already does. Nothing would have to be paid on earnings up to R180 000 per year. Earnings between R180 000 and R440 000 would attract an extra tax rate of 2%, then 2.75% applied to earnings between R440 000 and R750 000. Earnings above that would be taxed at 3.5%. In my view, it s a no-brainer. Maybe Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande could look at the policy urgently and discuss it with student leaders and university vice-chancellors? That way, the student unrest could end, universities would be financially secure and South Africa would then be free to confront fierce global competition.