A court interpreter s absence on Monday led to the postponement of a case involving eight police officials to February next year. All based at the Khayelitsha police station on the Cape Flats, the officials are accused of putting in false claims for travelling expenses. Three of them were to have brought an application for a separation of trials on Monday, but the absence of a suitable interpreter caused the postponement of the application. All eight appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crime Court in Bellville, Cape Town, before magistrate Sabrina Sonnenberg. The charge sheet explains the procedures to be followed by police officials going on investigations that take them away from their home bases to other provinces. An official first has to obtain permission from the provincial commissioner to use an official vehicle to leave the Western Cape and to claim expenses while on a trip. On his return, he or she may claim expenses on a special claim form, but must attach receipts as proof of payment for accommodation, meals and so on. READ MORE: Lonehill murder suspect arrested Police officials are allowed a subsistence allowance of R335 a day, and an official who is not away for a full day has to divide the R335 by 24 hours and then multiply the amount per hour by the number of hours away from base. An official gets an accommodation allowance of R103 a day and, similarly, the amount has to be divided by 24 hours and multiplied by the number of hours away from home if the official is not away for a full day. For meals, an official may claim R48 for breakfast but must leave home before 5am and return after 10am. The amount for lunch is the same as for breakfast, but the claimant has to leave base before 11am and return after 3pm. For dinner, he may claim R84, but has to depart before 5pm and return after 8pm. The charge sheet gives the surname and initials of each accused as follows: Brunniel Rudolph, Jerome Mosia, Jubulani Khanyile, Elman Majola, T Mchithwa, Andries Smit, Sheila Masiba, and Athenia Leibrandt. Mchithwa faces 16 counts of fraud, Masiba eight, Rudolph six, Khanyile, Majola and Smit 4 each and Mosia and Leibrandt two charges each. Rudolph, Khanyile and Leibrandt are represented by defence attorney Lawrence Moffitt, who is to launch the application for them to go on trial together but separate from the others. &#8211; African news Agency