Taking to his Facebook page, UDM leader Bantu Holomisa had stern words for president Jacob Zuma&#8217;s support of the Gupta family. During the last question and answer session in parliament yesterday, Zuma told opposition parties that it was questionable as to why the four major banks had terminated their services with the Guptas all at once. His statements further implied there was a sinister agenda behind the banks&#8217; move. If a number of banks act in the same way simultaneously, not one bank, not two banks, including some financial institutions, to any ordinary person, that is not an ordinary act. It suggests that there is something. The banks can t act together in the same manner, in the same way. It gives a feeling that there is something going on here. READ THIS: Cosatu backs Cyril Ramaphosa Zuma also said he was considering establishing a judicial inquiry into the banks&#8217; action. In response to Zuma&#8217;s backing of the Guptas, who have been desperate to have their banking services reinstated, even going as far as to write a letter to finance minister Pravin Gordhan, Holomisa said the president had effectively become an ombudsman for the embattled family, fighting their battles. &#8220;Firstly, this consideration is confirmed on the eve of the arrival of the rating agencies on our doorstep and at a time when our economy is struggling to breathe. Secondly, this is a direct departure of not contradicting his statement of September 2. The president further said the unfortunate contents of the statement and the inconvenience and confusion caused by the issuing thereof are deeply regretted . ALSO READ: Four of the most shocking quotes from Zuma s final Q&amp;A in parly &#8220;Thirdly, and notwithstanding the serious allegations filed in court by the minister of finance, the president deems it necessary to continue considering a judicial inquiry. Amongst these, is an allegation that the minister is doing favours for the Gupta family, and that his department has withheld information related to its approval of a transfer of R1.5 billion from a trust account held with Standard Bank to the Bank of Baroda in India.&#8221; Read Bantu Holomisa&#8217;s full statement below: