South Africans can expect the ANC s 101 stalwarts to exert a lot of pressure on party leader Jacob Zuma when they meet today. This is according to political analyst professor Andre Duvenhage. The stalwarts, who include reverend Frank Chikane, Ahmed Kathrada, and Andrew Mlangeni, have in the past requested to meet with the embattled Zuma, who they say has brought shame to both the ANC and the country. The stalwarts also said the ANC had failed to deal decisively with corruption, nepotism and factionalism, among other things. Today s meeting between the ANC s national working committee (NWC) and the stalwarts is according to Duvenhage likely to have a big impact on Zuma. I expect the stalwarts to put a lot of pressure on the president by asking him to step down, but it is also going to be interesting to see how Zuma reacts, because we also saw him at the weekend mobilising a lot of support in KwaZulu-Natal where he was talking about dishonest people it was clear he was preparing for his survival, he said. Speaking at a cadres&#8217; forum in Pietermaritzburg on Friday, Zuma said he was not a thief , saying those accusing him of stealing were the ones who were actually enriching themselves through theft, adding he knew who they were. Meanwhile, commenting on what s likely to happen at today s meeting, another political analyst, Elvis Masoga, said the ANC stalwarts had been observing a &#8220;strange and foreign party&#8221; under the leadership of Zuma. They are extremely concerned about the political abnormality engulfing the ANC and they are likely to ask Zuma to step down; the majority of ANC NEC and NWC members have been praying silently and privately for the president to do the right thing because they also think he has paralysed the organisation. On the other hand, Zuma has also lost all sense of shame and embarrassment, to the extent where he can t even appreciate the gravity of damage he has caused. Therefore, I think Zuma will continue to say he will not step down, Masoga said. When contacted for comment yesterday, one of the stalwarts, Rev Chikane, confirmed the meeting would take place, but could not comment further. Asked if Zuma would attend the meeting, ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni could also not provide a straightforward response.