As I followed with keen interest the comments and commiserations coming from around the world since Fidel Castro passed on Friday night, two comments caught my attention. These were from US president-elect Donald Trump and outgoing US president Barack Obama. Also read: World reacts to death of Cuba s Fidel Castro Trump s statement read: &#8220;Today, the world marks the passing of a brutal dictator who oppressed his own people for nearly six decades.&#8221; Trump went further to say that, &#8220;Fidel Castro&#8217;s legacy is one of firing squads, theft, unimaginable suffering, poverty and the denial of fundamental human rights. While Cuba remains a totalitarian island, it is my hope that today marks a move away from the horrors endured for too long, and toward a future in which the wonderful Cuban people finally live in the freedom they so richly deserve.&#8221; Also read: Timeline: Fidel Castro s life There is no hiding the fact that Fidel Castro, as leader, divided opinions in Cuba and indeed around the world. Loved by some and loathed by others. Universal education, almost guaranteed employment and quality healthcare are some of the revolutionary s achievements since he rose to power. Since 1961, Cuba has suffered an economic embargo from the United States and this has made the lives of many Cubans difficult. Despite these hardships many Cubans still remained behind the leadership of Castro. Obama on the other hand was more tactful in his message, perhaps out of a fear of undoing all the great work he started in trying to rebuild relations between the US and Cuba, or perhaps, just perhaps, trying to hide his admiration for the man. In his statement, Obama wrote, We know that this moment fills Cubans in Cuba and in the United States with powerful emotions, recalling the countless ways in which Fidel Castro altered the course of individual lives, families, and of the Cuban nation. This encapsulates the dichotomous nature in which Castro lived his life and how he was viewed by many around the world. Also read: Miami parties all night over Fidel Castro s death While we can no longer concern ourselves with the ideological battle between capitalism and communism, we cannot ignore the role Castro played in shaping the future of southern Africa and ultimately black majority rule in South Africa. If there is one place where Castro undoubtedly made a difference, it was in Angola, which changed the history of the southern African region and South Africa. The battle of Cuito Cuanavale As the Vietnam War was just drawing to an end, on the west coast of Africa a new war began, which threatened to become a proxy war for the communist and capitalist superpowers. The Americans, whose long and bloody war in Vietnam had scarred the country&#8217;s conscience, were not ready for another intervention. From a distance, they backed the FNLA and then worked with the South Africans to support UNITA. The Russians and Castro in Cuba supported the MPLA. But while the big players sought a power-sharing agreement, Castro decided to act. The Russians sent about 1,000 advisers, money and prayers but no combat troops. East Germany also sent military assistance. But for Castro, for what it was worth, this was not just another adventure or another ideological battle between communism and capitalism. Many Cubans are of African origin and come from the Angolan coast. Castro saw an opportunity to exert his brand of international solidarity and make a difference on a global scale. He sent 3,000 combat troops and 300 military advisers, as well as tanks and fighter aircraft. The battleground was Cuito Cuanavale, a small town in the south of Angola on the river Lomba and the gateway to southeastern Angola, where South Africa was training, supplying and directing UNITA forces. Whether it was a tactical retreat by the SADF or an Angolan victory, one cannot contest that the battle at Cuito Cuanavale was a turning point that brought the border war to an end and led to the peace negotiations that saw the withdrawal of the SADF, MK and Cuban forces from Angola and Namibia and led to the independence of Namibia. It is at that extraordinary moment the world and indeed America realised that the world had changed. The Americans had decided that since the Soviet Union was no longer the big threat in the region, the real enemy of peace in southern Africa was the racism of the South African apartheid regime and, with no backing from the US government, the end to white minority rule in Namibia and South Africa was just a matter of time. This was in no small part thanks to Castro, the man whose decision to go to war in Angola had triggered this moment. Fidel Castro&#8217;s intervention in Angola helped turn the US against apartheid South Africa Whichever way you choose to judge Castro, the revolutionary and legend may well have lived up to his words in his speech of 16 October 1953 when he said &#8221;La historia me absolver &#8221; (history will absolve me). Also read: Kathrada pays tribute to Fidel Castro These are the same words that were echoed, though without the obvious positive sentiment, by Obama in his message when we said, History will record and judge the enormous impact of this singular figure on the people and world around him. As a southern African myself, I pay my last respects to this giant of a man and say, go well, Comrade. Aluta continua. Also read: Vavi declares his love for Fidel Castro | The Citizen Archie Utedzi: Digital and content data analyst