Zimbabwean financial authorities say the dreaded surrogate currency bond notes will start circulating on Monday. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe is pleased to advise the nation of the introduction of bond notes with effect from Monday November 28, 2016, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe governor John Mangudya said in a statement on Saturday. The bond notes would be released into the market through normal banking channels in small denominations of $2 and $5 to fund export incentives of up to five percent, which would be paid to exporters of goods and services and remittances . The initial release of bond notes shall be in an amount of $10 million in denominations of $2 and $2 million in $1 bond coins. The features of the bond notes will be released simultaneously with the bond notes, the central bank chief said. The use of bond notes within the multi-currency exchange system, which are anchored to the US200 million [Africa Export and Import Bank] facility, will operate along the same lines as bond coins. They are pegged at 1:1 to the US dollar. Mangudya said no new accounts would be opened for the surrogate currency, as transactions would be made using existing US dollar accounts. He said in line with government s thrust of a cashless society and transactions, they had set withdrawal limits at $50 a day and $150 a week. This would also assist in stemming abuse of the bond notes by the market. The reserve bank has engaged and agreed with the Retailers Association of Zimbabwe, fuel companies, representatives of the various business associations, and the Consumer Council of Zimbabwe on the use and acceptability of bond notes as a medium of exchange in the country, he said. Zimbabwe is currently going through a gnawing cash crisis, which has seen depositors sleep in bank queues for days and foreign payments taking longer, affecting business and the resurgent industry in the country. The greenback has steadily disappeared from the market, with bigger US50 and US100 denominations now scarce. The US dollar has, over the past few years, dominated as the currency of choice in a multi-currency system comprising other currencies, such as the South African rand, Botswana pula, British pound, Indian rupee, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, Australian dollar, the euro, and bond coin (introduced in December 2014). The multi-currency system started in 2009. The introduction of bond notes is seen as a move to address the cash problems. African News Agency (ANA)