KwaZulu-Natal s department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs has only spent R7.5 million of its R100 milllion budget on drought relief according to the Democratic Alliance. However, the department s spokesman Lennox Mabaso said on Wednesday that while accounts show the department has only spent R7.5 million on drought relief, the reality was that government could only pay once it had signed off on the completion of the drought relief contracts. The DA s finance spokesman Francois Rodgers claimed that the under-expenditure on drought relief emerged at the provincial Finance Committee s mid-year performance review of the department on Thursday. The DA is both alarmed and disappointed by this revelation. Equally shocking is the response from COGTA MEC, Nomusa Dube-Ncube who first tried to defend the under-expenditure by challenging the accuracy of Treasury s figures and then stated that the bulk of the money had already been spent, listing numerous drought relief projects currently underway in KZN, said Rodgers. He said that that Dube-Ncube handed a copy of the department s drought relief report to the chairman of the committee. However, when the DA asked for copies of the same to be distributed to the committee the MEC refused on the basis that the report had to be sanitised first. The DA regards this type of secretive and selective distribution of information as shocking, particularly when it comes to an important issue such as R100 million in drought relief funding. Mabaso rejected the allegations. Government pays for work done. It does not pay up front. What the treasury does is look at that which has been spent. We cannot pay on the basis of blank cheques. The budget is committed. The work is done and then it has to be signed off that it is done. Only then can we pay. He said that the department had budgeted R42 million on providing boreholes. He said there were further allocations to provide bulk-water, provide water tankers at R30 million as well as an allocation for desalinisation. What treasury provided was outdated. As we speak there are payments being authorised, he said. He rejected the assertion from Rodger that Dube-Ncube did not want to hand over the report. That s a blatant lie. It s part of their [the DA s] propaganda. They simply misunderstand the mathematics of the way government works and they go and lie to the media. READ MORE: Parly watchdog slams Sanral over R1.1bn in irregular spending He said that the report had been given to the chairman of the portfolio committee meeting, Sipho KK Nkosi. There was no indication that they were unhappy. We gave the report to the chair. It s up to the chair to give it out. Whether they get it, that s none of our business. Nkosi, however, said that two members had approached him after the meeting for a copy of the report. Luckily the MEC heard me saying that I would make copies for them. She explained she had given me a rough copy and that it needed to be cleaned up. You can t circulate information which is not clean. We need a clean report. We refuse to be confused. He promised that he would follow up on getting a clean report because it was the committee s job to hold government accountable. African News Agency