Residents in Gauteng and other parts of the country may have received respite on Sunday from the thunderstorms that caused chaos last week, but the SA Weather Service has warned of more adverse conditions for the better part of this week. The storms, which resulted in flash floods, claimed several lives in Gauteng. Forecaster Dipuo Tawana yesterday told The Citizen that residents could expect further thunderstorms, especially during the first two days of this week. The provinces to be affected include KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng, Mpumalanga, the central and eastern parts of North West and the eastern parts of the Free State, Tawana said. In Gauteng [on Monday], there s a 60% chance of showers and thundershowers and a warning of thunderstorms has also been issued for the province. Similar conditions were also expected for tomorrow. There s a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers over Gauteng and the central parts of Limpopo, while residents in Mpumalanga, North West and the Free State can expect isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers, said Tawana. On Wednesday, we expect a break from the rain for some of the provinces. She said rainfall was expected on Thursday along the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Free State, North West, Gauteng and Mpumalanga. Tawana said her office would monitor the situation and advise accordingly on thunderstorms for the rest of the week. There was also a drastic drop in temperatures expected over Gauteng tomorrow, with maximums set to plummet to the late teens and early 20s. Meanwhile, the recent rainfall has not done much to relieve the drought. According to water affairs department spokesperson Sputnik Ratau, the thunderstorms were not feeding into the Vaal River system. This was not good news, considering the effects of the recent drought that has gripped most parts of the country since the last summer season . As a result, levels at some of the country s dams continued to dwindle. The Vaal Dam, servicing mainly Gauteng, last week saw its level dip to an alarming low of about 25%. ALSO READ: Despite Gauteng floods, the Vaal Dam barely rises This prompted authorities to release volumes of water from the Sterkfontein Dam, the Vaal Dam s storage reservoir, to improve the situation. We hope the water released from the Sterkfontein Dam will start coming into the Vaal Dam between Monday and Thursday, Ratau said. There was a slight movement on Friday, when the Vaal Dam levels reached 26.5%. stevent@citizen.co.za