The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) said on Sunday that 22 people have been arrested on drug-related charges in the Eastern Cape in various separate incidents. Captain Anelisa Feni said 12 people between the ages of 15 and 39 would appear in the East London Magistrates&#8217; Court on Monday for allegedly selling drugs to school children. The 12 were arrested in the East London area between Friday and Saturday through a joint operation between the South African Narcotics Enforcement Bureau (Saneb) of the Hawks and the Mdantsane crime intelligence gathering cluster. Members of the two units arrested these suspects after conducting a two-month investigation prior to the arrests. The investigation commenced after Saneb received a tip-off that the 11 males and one female were selling drugs to school children, Feni said. During the investigation and arrests different drugs worth an undisclosed amount were found in their possession, including ecstasy, magic mushrooms, cocaine, and dagga. The 12 were arrested at different locations in East London Quigney, Baysville, Amalinda, Beacon Bay, Cambridge and Braelyn. More arrests were expected with regards to this investigation. In another case, seven people between the ages of 17 and 61 appeared in the Mdantsane Magistrate s Court on Friday for allegedly dealing in dagga after being arrested by the Hawks on Thursday at a residence in Eluxolweni locality, Nxarhuni, Feni said. Saneb officers arrested the suspects after receiving information that dagga dealing activities were taking place in the residence. Dagga worth about R356 000 was found in the house. On Sunday, Saneb arrested two women aged 51 and 21 in Butterworth, also for allegedly dealing in drugs. Officers found an undisclosed amount of money, tik (crystal methamphetamine), and Mandrax in their possession. Also in Butterworth, Saneb officers arrested a 30-year-old woman for allegedly dealing in drugs. She was found in possession of an undisclosed amount of tik. All three would appear in the Butterworth Magistrate s Court on Monday, Feni said. African News Agency (ANA)