In medical science, chemotherapy means the use of medicines or drugs to treat cancer. Chemotherapy treats many types of cancers effectively. But, like other treatments, it often causes side effects. These are different for each person. They depend on the type of cancer, location, drugs and dose, and your general health.Over 80 per cent of all cancer patients will need some kind of these drugs at some point in their treatment plan it s a form of palliative treatment.However, people have this irrational fear about chemotherapy and this makes the drugs among the most feared in the medical profession. They are not only dreaded by the patients alone. Some medical personnel too, fear the medications.Although the fear could be justified, for majority, it is overrated mainly due to lack of quality information. This article aims at explaining the realities that patients taking chemotherapy have to contend with the side effects.What really happens?Chemotherapy acts on active cells. Active cells are cells that are growing and dividing into more of the same type of cell. Cancer cells are active, but so are some healthy cells. These include cells in blood, mouth, digestive system, and hair follicles. Side effects happen when chemotherapy damages these healthy cells.Different drugs cause different side effects. Certain types of chemotherapy often have specific side effects. But, each person s experience is different .Common side effects of chemotherapyFatigue: Fatigue is feeling tired or exhausted almost all the time. It is the most common side effect of chemotherapy.Pain: Chemotherapy sometimes causes pain. This can include Headaches Muscle pain Stomach pain Pain from nerve damage, such as burning, numbness, or shooting pains, usually in the fingers and toesMouth and throat sores: Chemotherapy can damage the cells inside the mouth and throat. This causes painful sores in these areas, a condition called mucositis. Mouth sores usually happen 5 to 14 days after a treatment. Mouth sores usually go away completely when treatment endsNausea and vomiting: Chemotherapy can cause nausea and vomiting. These side effects, and how much, depends on the specific drugs and dose. The right medications given before and after each dose of chemotherapy can usually prevent nausea and vomiting. Diarrhea: Some chemotherapy causes loose or watery bowel movements.Constipation: Chemotherapy can cause constipation. This means not having a bowel movement often enough or having difficult bowel movements. Drinking enough fluids, eating balanced meals to avoid risk of constipationSexual and reproductive issues: Chemotherapy can affect your fertility. For women, this is the ability to get pregnant and carry a pregnancy. For men, fertility is the ability to make a woman pregnant. Being tired, feeling sick or treatment can affect ability to enjoy sex.Appetite loss: Due to this, patient lose weight, muscle mass and strength. All these things lower possibility to recover from chemotherapy.Hair loss: Chemotherapy causes hair loss from all over body. Hair loss usually starts after the first several weeks of chemotherapy. It tends to increase 1 to 2 months into treatment.Blood disorders: Aneamia is common for people with cancer, especially for those receiving chemotherapy because chemotherapy can cause kidney damage and this is the organ which secretes erythropoietin, which used to make red blood cells in the bone marrow.The author is a clinical pharmacist based in Dar es Salaam. Email: sajjidfazel@hotmail.com