Mtwara. Police yesterday blocked an internal meeting in which the Civic United Front (CUF) secretary general Seif Shariff Hamad was scheduled to address party members.Law enforcers blocked the meeting on grounds that they were not informed about its arrangements but briefing reporters later Mr Hamad said the move was part of government s plot to sabotage their party. He wondered why the Police said they were not aware of the meeting while his office had written to inform them about the same.Mr Hamad noted also that the Police reacted to a letter written by party s Mtwara district secretary that he was not aware of the meeting and it was amazing why (The Police) had decided to act on a letter by a lower ranked leader while he (Hamad) has also written to them. This is Tanzania. Police are meddling in party activities to stifle democracy. I m not impressed with what has happened and when I return to Dar es Salaam I m going to see the minister and ask him if this is how the Police Force has been directed to behave, he said. He noted that what has been done by the Police was high level of intimidation to him as a former national leader. I don t expect that what has happened in Mtwara will also happen in Lindi. But if a similar incident happens it will be a proof that the State is bent to support a certain man, he said. Though he did not name that man, it is understood that Mr Hamad is embroiled in leadership dispute against Prof Ibrahim Lipumba who claims to hold CUF national chairman office.But briefing journalists on the decision to stop the meeting, Mtwara Regional Police Commander Thobias Sedoyeka said their move did not aim at preventing Mr Hamad but they did so to avert possible clashes.He said they were not going to allow any of the CUF meetings unless disputing parties resolve their differences.He said on November 17, this year, CUF Youth Wing (Juvicha) wrote to the Officer Commanding District (OCD) informing him of their intention to hold youth symposium.But on the same date, leaders from CUF district office wrote another letter stating that they were not informed of the visit by their national leaders. In the letter the district leadership said the meeting had no party blessings. Under such circumstances we noted the possibility of clashes and that is why we moved to stop the same, he said.