ANC MPs who simply decided not to pitch up for work to vote for an important dollar bill are in deep trouble and are to be hauled before a disciplinary committee. Following a second failed attempt this week to pass the important Division of Revenue Amendment Bill, chief whip Jackson Mthembu seemed hopeful on Wednesday that it would be third time lucky next Tuesday. The money bill puts into effect budget allocations of money to provincial and local government. Until it s passed by the required 201 votes, no money can be made available. It was left in the wings again on Wednesday after only 193 MPs voted in its favour. This despite 209 ANC MPs individually confirming they d be there to cast their vote when the bells rang. Mthembu said the ANC took full responsibility for failing to pass the legislation. The behaviour of MPs was disgraceful and downright disrespectful to the people of South Africa , he said. The unanimous view of the caucus is that the harshest punishment must be taken against the absentees, Mthembu said. The extreme seriousness of the charges faced by these MPs requires that the process be conducted swiftly. ALSO READ: ANC MPs go AWOL in parly, Mthembu switches to rapid fire mode This will ensure that the appropriate sanctions are meted out against the delinquent MPs to send a strong message to all and sundry that we are unwavering in our commitment to enforce diligence, unwavering presence in the house and committees, and an attitude of respect and accountability towards the electorate. Mthembu said the caucus and Luthuli House itself were growing concerned about ill-discipline among its cadres. He said punishment could range from serious warnings to fines. But he inferred the ANC in parliament had grown tired of repeat offenders and may ask big brother in Luthuli House to intervene and consider recalling members. The deputy president [Cyril Ramaphosa] came running to the house to vote because he understood the importance of what he had to do. He was huffing and puffing as he came into the chamber. That s how serious the matter is. The vote is serious. Not only on this piece of legislation but voting in the house on any matter. Anybody who has been in parliament for two months knows that this is serious, he said. For the second day in a row, the Democratic Alliance and the Economic Freedom Fighters used the unoccupied ANC benches to their advantage and left the house before voting commenced.