Welcome dear readers. In this issue we are talking about parenting. There was a Mother and Child Gala recently that got me thinking about a lot of issues about parenting. There are several books and magazines about how to be a perfect parent out there. Well I believe most of us are effective parents.Though fulfilling, raising children is one of the toughest jobs on earth. Most parents go to bed worrying if they will live long enough to raise their children. They worry about uncertainties and pray often for their children s wellbeing.At times we lie awake watching our children agonising if they might inherit some of our character flaws. We are also thinking about the changing scope of parenting. When we were children, parents were always right and there was no talking back.At times a thunderous slap would land across your face without warning and we were expected to say thank you to the discipline master/mistress for correcting a wrong behavior.And we would leave seats for older people in the bus, church and many other places. And we were required to stand up and greet our elders with beaming smiles while holding our hands behind our backs as good Christians.Those were categorised as good manners when we were growing up. And teachers were bad news those days, do I need to elaborate what they would do with bamboo sticks and chalkboard rulers back then? Perhaps it would make a good read some other day. So let s stick to the matter at hand; which is parenting in the world today.Things have changed these days since there are those nasty people who think that what is applicable to their children should also work for your child. They come to your house and tell you how to raise your child, what to feed them on, which schools to take them to, when to stop breastfeeding and all other unsolicited advice.I know you have read a lot of parenting books and I believe you don t practice everything they recommend. Perhaps you probably only apply a small fraction of those recommendations.But look here parents; don t be too hard on yourselves. Most of you are amazing parents and all you need to do is to lead by example as important role models to your children. This will help them grow up reflecting your virtues.