Doctors at Kalafong Provincial Tertiary Hospital in the west of Pretoria claim the way some patients are treated amounts to torture. According to the doctors, there have been numerous occasions when there was no pain medication to give patients after surgery. It is torture to have such excruciating pain after you have been cut open and sewn back together. About three weeks ago we had no pain medication at all. You cannot give such a patient Panado, one doctor said. And due to a shortage of nursing staff in some wards, patients sometimes go hungry if they are too sick or weak to feed themselves, they said. Sometimes doctors and tea ladies jump in to help feed patients, but that is not always possible, a doctor said. Another was in tears as she recounted how the reuse of disposable supplies caused patients wounds to turn septic. Kalafong is a good hospital with good staff and we want to work here, but we need management to give us the tools to work with. We need serious intervention, she said. We love our jobs and it makes you a better doctor to work at a hospital like Kalafong, she added. Though Steve Biko Academic Hospital has also been accused of only giving patients Panado for pain and giving them prescriptions for drugs they cannot afford, the complaints about Kalafong are mainly about bad treatment. Mamelodi Day hospital has also been accused of bad treatment. Patient Tiffany Kagees said she was told to clean up her own blood minutes after giving birth at the end of April in the Mamelodi Day Hospital. She said she also had to clean the bed as the nurses told her another patient had to use it. They then allegedly put her on a stretcher and dumped her with her baby in the hallway . I was in terrible pain and feeling very dizzy and sick, she said. In another alleged incident at Kalafong Hospital, a patient claimed her daughter was given antiretroviral medication because the nurses mistakenly thought she was HIV positive. The nurses begged her not to tell the hospital management or her husband as they would lose their jobs. The problem is that they mess up and we feel sorry for them, that is why we do not report incidents, she said. Here are some of the problems doctors listed: There is no pain medication at times. Patients are sent home with Panado only. Doctors reuse scrubs and gloves. There are not enough bandages. Huge shortage of linen. There is always a shortage of syringes and they are reused. There is a shortage of surgical masks. Nurses bring masking tape from home to help protect the eyes of babies with jaundice.