Kwaito legend and Trompies member Eugene Mthethwa has found himself in the middle of a sex scandal between his mother-in-law and a male prostitute, a scandal that has now involved police. His mother-in-law, Pastor Rose Botwana of Zoe Bible Church in Soweto, was allegedly caught buying sex from male sex worker Jack Mutie, 35, based in Durban. Sunday World has reportedly seen a sex tape that features a man and woman in red lingerie, who resembles the pastor, having what appears to be unprotected sex. Mutie has told the publication the 54-year-old pastor told him having a sex tape has always been her fantasy, as she married young and never got the chance to experiment. He further says she forced him to record their steamy sessions. So far, the two have recorded three. Things got ugly when the pastor was caught by her husband and claimed that Mutie had raped her, further opening a case against him. Telling her side of the story, Botwana said she met Mutie on Facebook after accepting his friend request, pretending to be a businessman. She then travelled to Durban for a business meeting with him at the Beverley Hills Hotel. After asking him for a drink, she felt &#8220;weird&#8221; and &#8220;high&#8221;, further accusing Mutie of drugging and raping her. Also read: Khune&#8217;s friends &#8216;threatened to kill&#8217; Minnie for dumping him According to Botwana, Mutie made the tapes so he could demand money and cars from her. This is when she decided to involve her son-in-law, Mthethwa, so he could help her with the problem. However, Mutie has denied his client&#8217;s side of the story, saying the two had been at it since March this year and charged her R10 000 for the sessions, which was later reduced to R5 000 and R4 000 as she became a regular. Their business deals went wrong after the pastor started getting the services on debt, which Mutie told the publication that he didn&#8217;t mind, as he trusted her. This until the debt accumulated to R120 000. Mthethwa was then brought in to threaten Muti to stop demanding the money owed to him. But Mthethwa told the publication he did not want to be dragged into the matter, despite messages between him and Mutie emerging. Police spokesperson Thulani Zwane confirmed to the publication that Mutie was arrested and remained in custody for extortion, after the rape case was dismissed.