One piece of advice most experts will give punters is to follow the people in form. Sport in general is a lot about confidence and the more anybody wins, the more they believe in themselves. Right now Mike de Kock has his string crooning at perfect pitch and when they are in harmony it is worth staying in tune. They saddle three runners at the Vaal Inside track today and the best could be Bold Rex in Race 7, a MR 80 Handicap over 1800m. He has only raced seven times for three wins and the decision to geld him may have just been what this son of Bold Silvano needed. This fellow came out of the blocks firing. He was a decent enough two-year-old, winning on debut and then defeating Dawn Assault in a Juvenile Plate at the Vaal Classic course in his third start. He contested the Grade 2 Golden Horseshoe at Greyville in July, finishing 5.15 lengths behind Zodiac Ruler. He was gelded in August and his comeback run was in the Grand Heritage over 1475m at the Vaal but he hardly raised a gallop. He improved with alacrity in his next start, running over 1600m on the Classic track, where he beat Tom Fool by 1.30 lengths. He was ridden out to win but Bold Rex is still learning his craft and there should be quite a lot of improvement to come from him. Muzi Yeni rode him to victory on that occasion and De Kock has entrusted him with the ride again. Bold Rex only received a 2kg penalty for that so he was not harshly treated. This is his first attempt at 1800m but based on his breeding should be looking for this and even further. After all, his father is a Vodacom Durban July winner. Bold Rex could well be a banker in bets. Stable companion Trip To Rio also contests this event and he can be useful on his day. However, he ran last night so it is questionable whether he will run again tomorrow. De Kock s final runner comes in Race 9, a Maiden Plate over 1400m, and this looks to be a three-cornered contest. Rouge Allure was expected to win last time but found first-timer Eternal Spring too good. He has to be a massive contender. John Janse van Vuuren saddles Being Fabulous, who was well supported to win on debut but had to settle for third place, beaten just 0.55-lengths by Malachite Sunbird. The De Kock runner is Oh My Darling who contested a Juvenile Plate on debut and finished a 3.60-length third behind Safe Harbour in July. If fit, she could prove hard to beat.