The Tshwane School of Music yesterday received a R1 million injection from the department of arts and culture to cover their operation costs. As if that was not a big surprise, Arts and Culture Deputy Minister Rejoice Mabudafhasi announced she would take musicians from the school to a youth celebration in Kuwait next year. Mabudafhasi said the school, like many other community arts centres, operated under difficult conditions, and that resources were permanently insufficient for it to fully discharge its role in communities. It feels good to be back here at Tshwane School of Music, Mabudafhasi said. I made a commitment to adopt this school as a special project during the launch of the Mafikizolo Reunited Tour. Mabudafhasi said the school was one of few arts centres run professionally and with an accredited music programme. The role it plays includes training, ensuring young people do not loiter, provides opportunities for participation in the arts for employment, income generation, arts education, recreation and cultural enrichment. She said she visited Kuwait last month for its heritage celebrations and to strengthen cultural collaborations. ALSO READ: Ex-Miss SA Bokang slammed for wearing white at friend&#8217;s wedding They further requested that I bring youth groups in 2017 as they will be celebrating the youth, she told the musicians at the school. I have recommended Tshwane School of Music as one of the groups to visit Kuwait and perform in 2017. They will cover all the costs. She said she was looking forward to seeing the best of the best artists in different genres brewed from the Tshwane music school competing nationally and internationally. Freddy Arendse, the founder of the Tshwane School of Music, said they had 150 children aged between eight and 16. He said they attended this after-school project, which is a University of South Africa contemporary jazz program. These kids pay about R1 000, and the money the department has donated will certainly help cover the R9 000 shortfall per child, Arendse said. Some of these children have shared a stage with stars the likes of Jonathan Butler, Mafikizolo and featured in the Joy of Jazz platform.&#8221;