Data must fall. Why? Data costs are too expensive in South Africa and because data is a human right. Mobile operators are greedy monopolistic capitalists who collude and exploit consumers. Really? Only the rich can access cheaper data. Fact? Market failure and lack of competition are to blame. But are they? Government needs to crack down on the sector through regulation. Should it? The proposed information and communications technology (ICT) white paper is in South Africa s interest. Truly? Electromagnetic spectrum belongs to government which can decide how, when and where to allocate it. Does it? Private companies should be forced to allow competitors to use their assets at cost. Should they? These are some of the unquestioned memes floating about. Consider this: two businessmen whose new venture relies on cheap data have pulled off an amazing coup. They launched and dominate the debate so successfully that public opinion and government policy are being formed without regard for the facts behind the hype. Even normally sober-minded people have been sold on the data hysteria. The knee-jerk endorsement of the #DataMustFall frenzy led the Free Market Foundation (FMF) to interrogate the premise of the campaign, ask fundamental questions and disseminate the truth. Our preliminary findings raise the question: is this a deliberate campaign of disinformation? The speed and ease with which the spurious five-country comparison captured media and public opinion is astounding. But there was no context, explanation or balance, just a bald assertion about the supposed cost of 1GB of data. In truth, there are many ways of buying 1GB locally and elsewhere. A single price comparison is misleading, disingenuous and invites questions around motive. Also, in the mobile sector, the long awaited ICT policy white paper proposes a new wireless open access network model that has failed to deliver elsewhere. It amounts to the nationalisation of private assets that would further erode property rights, which are severely compromised in South Africa. If enacted, this policy would transform billions of private infrastructure investment into a sterile cost-based asset. It would undermine a key economic engine of growth, innovation and investment. It would destroy network competition and promote collusive monopoly. From the perspective of the FMF it is important to note that mobile operators are not charities but private firms. Why are expectations of network providers different from other retailers? Yet again, people need to be reminded that there ain t no such thing as a free lunch. Unlike in other countries, local network operators are required to provide a huge and growing contribution to society in terms of free data access, especially in education and for the poor. It is economics 101 that this cost has to be borne by consumers through higher prices, fewer employees, the fiscus with reduced taxes, and the economy with lower growth. The FMF, with a 41-year history of promoting public interest truth in the face of misguided opinion, cautions against distortions created by state intervention. South Africa needs a transparent debate based on facts and analysis before the heavy hand of government is evoked.