David Miller s magnificent unbeaten century turned out to not be enough for the VKB Knights as they were beaten by three wickets with a ball to spare by the Multiply Titans in their dramatic CSA T20 Challenge match at Sahara Willowmoore Park in Benoni on Friday night. Miller came to the crease with the Knights having already lost two wickets in the first 10 balls of the innings, and his superb 120 not out off just 61 balls almost single-handedly lifted the visitors, who had won the toss, to a competitive total of 185 for six. The left-hander s brilliant batting display, which included eight fours and nine sixes, was followed by an intriguing run-chase as the Titans started well, the Knights fought back, Farhaan Behardien and David Wiese then took the home side to the brink of victory, and then fortunes seemed to have turned against them in the final over. With Behardien (30 off 18) and Wiese (34 off 15) adding 49 in four overs to get the required run-rate down to a run-a-ball, there would have been some red faces in the Titans camp had they lost. Wiese had just belted Dillon du Preez for three consecutive sixes to end the 18th over and added another one in the next over bowled by Marchant de Lange, but was then left fuming as umpire Clifford Isaacs adjudged him to be caught behind off the last ball of the penultimate over. Behardien then ran himself out going for a foolish second run to third man, beaten by Patrick Kruger s slick fielding, off the first ball of the final over. That left two new batsmen at the crease in Shaun von Berg and Malusi Siboto and they were battling to finish the job, needing two runs off the last ball to win when Shadley van Schalkwyk suffered the final humiliation and delivered a full toss above waist-high, which was no-balled and the batsmen took a single. The Titans had earlier been given a good start by opener Heinrich Klaasen, who struck a fine 52 off 30 balls before he was dismissed by Duanne Olivier, who he had earlier hit for two fours and two sixes in the 10th over. That lifted the Titans to 93 for two, exactly halfway to their target at the halfway mark, but they were then set back by the fall of wickets as they scored just 55 runs in the next seven overs. Miller was given stout support by Pite van Biljon in his rescue effort for the Knights, the stand-in captain scoring 28 off 31 balls as they added 91 off 64 balls for the third wicket. Miller reached his first T20 century on home soil with a scorching drive for four through the covers off Junior Dala, with the unfortunate paceman conceding 25 off the over and ending with none for 57, the most expensive figures in the history of the competition. Albie Morkel (two for 21) and Wiese (two for 27) were the outstanding Titans bowlers, helped by the solid support of Lungi Ngidi (3-0-23-0), but the brilliance of Miller was impossible to contain. The better all-round batting of the Titans won the day though.