ANC national executive committee member Malusi Gigaba on Friday urged young people in the governing party to shun raging factional battles within the movement, which he said are a massive distraction from the founding principles and targets of the African National Congress (ANC). We must keep our eyes always focused on the historic revolutionary tasks of the movement, rather than the interests and fights of the different factions that exist within the movement, Gigaba told delegates at the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) Youth Structure s elective conference in Pretoria. The fact is that factions are a massive drain on the vision, the integrity and prestige of the movement. Our collective challenge at the present moment is to defeat these factions and defeat them completely. Often, we re always eager to point fingers at others as factions and see factions outside ourselves while we too act as, and are, factions. Gigaba appealed to the hundreds of the NUM Youth Structure leaders gathered in Pretoria to take a firm stand against factionalism at the end of their three-day conference. The youth must make a resolution to free themselves of factions and factionalism, and seek total independence from this malice. Free yourselves from factions constituted by, and factional battles designed by adults in the movement who are now pursuing their material interests rather than the collective interests of the movement and the masses of our people, said the former ANC Youth League president. READ MORE: Hawks knew Gordhan was innocent report Today, comrades have become so obsessed with their factions that they believe the first allegation or lie made in the white media about fellow comrades without even giving you the benefit of the doubt. They will then go on to crucify you on social media and the court of public opinion as if you are the enemy yourself. Sometimes you wonder whether we indeed are still comrades Gigaba had a scathing message for members of the ANC and its alliance partners which have become darlings of the opposition. To become famous with the mortal enemies of our revolution is to be a problem. The moment our mortal enemies start praising you, it means there is something wrong you are doing. You need to retrace your steps, correct your mistakes and out yourself in a position where your mortal enemies see you correctly for what you are their mortal enemy, said Gigaba. There can be no agreement between us, because we seek to destroy them, and they seek to destroy us. The many different voices, all speaking at cross purposes at the present moment must be muted. The guns must be silenced. We must all sort out, whatever our differences are, internally. He said silencing all the ongoing public spats among party officials will be appreciated by all that love and cherish the ANC . Gigaba, who is also the Home Affairs minister, appealed for unity in the ANC and it s partners. Our own experience has taught us that without a united ANC, there cannot be a united tripartite alliance. Without a united tripartite alliance there the forces of the revolution will get united and this society will break apart into different factions ready for exploitation by imperialist forces abroad and by capitalist forces domestically, said Gigaba. The ANC, together with the tripartite alliance, is the glue that holds this society together. &#8211; African News Agency