The South African Communist Party (SACP) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on Saturday mourned the death of 90-year-old former Cuban president Fidel Castro. ALSO READ: SA-Cuba relations in brief The SACP expressed its profound revolutionary solidarity and condolences with the people of Cuba and Castro s family. SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande offered the party s condolences, saying Castro belonged to the rarest breed of finest revolutionaries who made an invaluable contribution in the struggle for the emancipation of humanity . Human history will be incomplete without comrade Fidel Castro s colossal contribution in the struggle for freedom, for a society without the exploitation of one person, group, or country by another. The SACP is deeply saddened by the loss, he said. The people and government of Cuba offered outstanding solidarity support under Castro s leadership in South Africa s own struggle against colonial oppression, apartheid, economic exploitation, and African continental independence . Cuba s contribution in the struggle for freedom by the democratic people of our country, Southern African region, the African continent, and elsewhere came without any strings attached. This revolutionary culture continues to this day, the latest example being the excellent work done by Cuban healthcare professionals in the fight against the deadly Ebola virus in our continent. ALSO READ: Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro dies South Africa is also host to Cuban healthcare professionals working in rural areas where there are few or even no South African doctors looking after the health needs of our people. South Africa also has about 3000 students training as doctors in Cuba. We dip our red revolutionary banner in memory of cde Fidel. In a separate statement, EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi sent the EFF s revolutionary condolences to the family and close friends as well as the people of Cuba as a whole . Castro s 90 years of existence touched the lives of many in the world, particularly socialist militants who were still fighting capitalism and imperialism. We pass revolutionary condolences to them as well, hoping wishing revolutionary peace to their painful hearts, Ndlozi said.