The police minister, Nkosinathi Nhleko, has been ordered to pay more than R3.5 million to two traditional healers who were ostracised by their communities after the police falsely accused them of being witches and murderers. Judge Nomonde Mngqibisa-Thusi ordered the minister to pay more than R2.1 million damages to Limpopo traditional healer Lisbeth Phasha and more than R1.4 million to her colleague, Bernardo Bila, as a result of their ordeal at the hands of the police over a decade ago. Phasha and Bila were arrested in October 2006 on the accusation that they had murdered a person and dismembered him in order to sell his body parts. They were denied bail and kept in custody for almost a year before the director of public prosecutions decided not to prosecute them. The court previously ruled that their arrest and detention had been unlawful and their prosecution malicious, but dismissed their claims for assault. Phasha s small child was left behind when she was arrested because a police captain refused to let her keep the child with her and told members of the community she was a murderer and a witch. Police threw her traditional medicine on the floor and made her eat some of it while the crowd was swearing at her, singing slogans, throwing stones and threatening to burn down her house. ALSO READ: Solidarity accuses SAPS of failing to heed employee grievances Bila said the police had threatened to burn him alive unless he told them where the alleged body parts were. Phasha s arrest and imprisonment exacerbated the depression she already had because of the earlier murder of her husband and son. She blamed police for her woes, now suffered from chest, rib and neck pains and sometimes lost her mind . Bila could no longer go to the veld to dig for herbs, suffered from chest pains and could not do any physical work. Phasha and Bila both suffered from post-traumatic stress and depression and lost their income as traditional healers as they were isolated by the community. Mngqibisa-Thusi said there was no doubt that Phasha and Bila had been wronged and that their unlawful detention and prosecution had caused them sadness, humiliated them and lowered their dignity within the community.