There is so much to look forward to as a number of intriguing storylines take shape at a tournament basking in the sunshine of its new glittering status. Now penned down as the penultimate event before the European Tour s season-ending DP World Tour Championship in Dubai next week, the race is on as the world s best jostle for top positions. Masters champion Danny Willett had the chance to overtake Henrik Stenson at the summit of the Race to Dubai rankings with a top-five finish at last weekend s Turkish Airlines Open, but that all went up in smoke. The duo who have both tasted glory at Sun City will resume the ding-dong battle with just over 250 000 points separating them. This may sound a lot, but with over a million points up for grabs this weekend, the stakes couldn t be higher. Looking at the rest of the top-10 makes for pleasant reading, especially seventh, Louis Oosthuizen, and Branden Grace 10th. Oosthuizen has had a rather quiet 2016 since winning the ISPS Handa Perth International in February and would love nothing more than to clinch Africa s Major , while Grace looks to turn the T next to his name in the results column into a W . While the T and W represent ties and wins respectively, it could also bring Tiger Woods to mind, but we ll tackle the big comeback in weeks to come. In the space of a year, Grace has notched up at least six joint finishes in top-10s around the world in a season highlighted by his first US PGA victory in April. He was also the best placed South African golfer in the 2015 edition of the NGC, finishing joint fourth. Another welcome addition to the SA crop is George Coetzee who booked his spot with a topfive spot in Turkey last week. The laid-back South African produced some scintillating golf, including rounds of 64, 66 and 67, with only a second round 73 unravelling his chances. The big-hitting Coetzee is relishing the challenges offered by the layout which demands pinpoint accuracy off the tee. But in typical style, the 30-yearold sees this as an opportunity rather than a threat. The other benefit is that we ll be back on the kikuyu. You can hammer the ball out of the rough . Of the nine SA golfers flying the flag, Brandon Stone is definitely the most pumped up. If he s not counting the days down, then he s posting pics taken with his caddie next to giant NGC signs scattered around the course. Once a five-year-old watching Nick Price edge Woods in the 1998 play-off, the now 23-year-old is about to realise his boyhood dream of emulating his heroes. And with tournament host Gary Player lingering in the bushveld shadows, the setting couldn t be more magical amid soaring temperatures and blistering action. Like Baz Luhrmann said in his 1997 smash hit: If I could offer you only one tip for the future, sunscreen would be it .