Just a few weeks ago, I was telling you from Paris how the world was shifting toward luxury lifestyle orientated double cab bakkies as a preferred means of transport, when Renault unveiled their Alaskan. . This week, Mercedes-Benz fired probably the biggest warning shot to the competitors in this segment when they showed us their new Concept X-Class double cab in Stockholm. Love or hate the idea, one thing you can t deny, the world is sitting up and taking notice of this development. And with good reason. Some 20 years ago, a similar thing happened when customers wanted more luxury and dynamism from their off-roaders, and Mercedes-Benz was the quickest to react by being the first premium manufacturer to launch a sport utility vehicle (SUV). The M-Class completely redefined the off-road segment with lasting success. Gone are the days when bakkies were mere workhorses . Instead, they are becoming popular as versatile vehicles for a simultaneous private and commercial use and as vehicles for a strictly private use. The percentage of privately used bakkies has been growing steadily for years. And accordingly, the double cab has emerged as the dominating body style because it offers room for up to five persons. Customers are demanding vehicles with the characteristics and comfort features of a passenger car. To effectively do this, Daimler AG will expand its strategic cooperation with the Renault-Nissan Alliance. This affords MercedesBenz a quick and cost-efficient entry into the fast-growing segment of mid-size bakkies. In addition, both companies benefit from optimal utilisation of the production capacity. Nissan is the second-largest manufacturer of mid-size bakkies with a payload of one ton in the world, and can look back on more than 80 years of experience in producing and marketing these types of vehicles. Two concepts were shown, The Adventurer and The Explorer, but how much of this will make production is a story for another day. I think what you see here is a pretty good idea of what Mercedes-Benz are capable of. The Mercedes-Benz production bakkie will be launched overseas in late 2017 under the name Mercedes-Benz X-Class and reach us in early 2018. Volker Mornhinweg, head of Mercedes-Benz Vans says: Our X-Class will be a pickup [bakkie] that knows no compromise. . Ladder-type frame, high-torque six-cylinder engine, and permanent all-wheel drive are compulsory for us. As an added value, we bring safety, comfort, agility and expressive design. As is the norm for MercedesBenz, customers of the X-Class will be able to choose from different equipment scopes to customise the exterior and interior. Thanks to the tried and tested modular strategy, a host of interior components customers know and appreciate from the C-Class and V-Class will be found in the X-Class including the high-quality materials, infotainment system and the ergonomic seating comfort. As a result, the bakkie will offer the welcome home feeling typical of the brand, and define a new level of comfort and value appeal in the segment of mid-size bakkies. Variety will likewise distinguish the engine range. The topof-the-line model will be powered by a 3.0-litre V6 Mercedes-Benz diesel in combination with 4MATIC permanent all-wheel drive and the seven-speed automatic transmission. The high-torque engine will provide high driving dynamics on and off the road. The all-wheel-drive system will combine an electronic traction system, a transfer case with reduction gear, and two differential locks. . The traction system and the electrically operated on-demand differential locks channel power to where traction is best. Under extreme off-road conditions, the rear differential and the inter-axle differential can be locked. This will make it possible to safely master difficult obstacles and inclines. The powerful drive system and the tough ladder-type frame will make a payload of more than 1.1 tons and a towing capacity of up to 3.5 tons possible. At the same time, the specially constructed suspension with wide axles, a fivelink rear axle with coil springs, and a precisely calibrated spring and damper set-up will ensure ride comfort. Mercedes-Benz also claim their bakkie will impress with precise steering, a comfortable ride and agile cornering. We were told in no uncertain terms the non-top-of-the-range double cabs would feature Renault-Nissan alliance 2.3 turbodiesel and 2.5 petrol engines, along with a different level of spec in the 4&#215;2 and 4&#215;4 with manual and automatic options. The X-Class will also set new standards in the segment with regard to connected life. Thanks to the communication module with on-board SIM card, it will be possible to use Mercedes connect services. Drivers can connect with their bakkie by smartphone, tablet or PC from anywhere. For example, to send navigation destinations to the vehicle or query where the bakkie is parked and how much fuel is in the tank. In addition, standard services like accident recovery, and maintenance and breakdown management will also be available (market dependant). Like all Mercedeses, the X-Class will be distinguished by exemplary safety. Modern driver assistance systems based on cameras, radar and ultrasound sensors will support and relieve the driver while enhancing safety and comfort. A host of assistance systems will be standard.