They are rampant and angry with a just cause yet students protesting over having to pay university fees &#8211; and the associated violence may be doing their cause more harm than good, as well as the rest of the education system, a policy fellow at the Institute of Race Relations has found. There s more in Sara Gon s report, Fees can fall but First , and Gon calls for fallists to take accountability for their actions, castigates them for shifting the goalposts each time negotiations are possible, and crucially, suggests the movement has morphed into a violent anarchist movement that is using racial incitement to provoke conflict and division in our society . Acting Police Commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane says FMF protests have been infiltrated by certain elements with an agenda to destabilize the country, and believes the students are not acting alone, said Gon in Johannesburg today. Essentially, the protest has given the protestors a free pass. The problem with the students and their protest is that it s a very romantic sympathetic experience, Gon. READ MORE: University of Johannesburg student march halted by police You ve got youngsters leading a protest about a cause which is ostensibly absolutely understandable because it s about not being able to afford to get into university, and I believe the protest has had problems from day one. The #FeesMustFall exploded across South Africa last year and in short order went from #RhodesMustFall to #FeesMustFall. It died down when President Jacob Zuma offered the students in October last year the sop there would be no increase in fees. Until Higher education minister Blade Nzimande announced in September the Ministry s contribution will be limited to 8%. Since then many protest leaders have been arrested and at least one student, University of Johannesburg 21 year-old student Kelvin Baloyi, was allegedly killed by a bouncer aka private security. Another was shot multiple times in her back with rubber bullets by a police member while the daily violence has seen the story move off the front pages of newspapers as students and police circle each other with no end in sight. The biggest problem, Gon believed, is that demands were being made of people who could never fulfil them. The minute you make a demand to a party that cannot accede; your negotiations will be in bad faith, said Gon.