Former South African bowling coach Vincent Barnes says the International Cricket Council (ICC) will be hard pressed to prove any wrongdoing on the part of Proteas captain Faf du Plessis after he was charged with ball tampering for doing two things that are legal eating a sweet on the field and putting saliva on the ball albeit at the same time. The ICC formally charged du Plessis with a level 2 breach of its code of conduct yesterday following a video posted on an Australian website of him sticking his forefinger in his mouth and then rubbing his saliva on the ball, while eating a sweet, during the series-clinching second-Test win over Australia in Hobart earlier this week. Du Plessis has pleaded not guilty and his team-mates and Cricket South Africa (CSA) rushed to his defence yesterday. Senior batsman Hashim Amla, with the whole squad behind him, made a statement in which he described the allegations as ridiculous , while CSA said they would give du Plessis legal representation and were waiting for the ICC to set a date for the hearing with match referee Andy Pycroft. I m not sure exactly what the basis for the charge is. It sounds preposterous, Barnes said yesterday. The ICC will have to prove that whatever Faf put on the ball has altered its state, but players are often chewing gum or eating sweets on the field and it s not illegal to put saliva on the ball. Added Barnes, the most successful bowler in 1980s nonracial cricket in South Africa: I was watching the England-versus-India Test and in the second-last over, Mohammad Shami started to get the ball to reverse. At the end of the over, the ball is given to Murali Vijay, who spits in the palm of his hand and then rubs and twists the ball in it. He did that right in front of the umpire. Amla was clearly bemused. I ve had sweets in my mouth, bubblegum in my mouth, biltong, nuts, I m not sure what the big deal is, he said. If du Plessis is found guilty, he could face a fine of between 50%- 100% of his match fee and/or up to a one-Test suspension.