Like most South Africans on social media have been saying: Ja &#8230; a pretty big one too &#8230; Johannesburg. Poking fun is actually the only thing you can do to digest a brainless act like that. It clearly implies that because KG is black, he must be from a village somewhere, herding cattle and probably wearing some hide to cover his genitalia. I m actually not in the least surprised by Chappell s remark. He is not the first Aussie to advertise a lack of political correctness, respect and just plain common decency. Speaking of the Chappells, Ian s very own brother, Greg, was involved in a fall-out with the media during his stint as Indian coach that also bordered between being very sad and actually hilarious. Now Greg is probably one of the grumpiest, most unapproachable coaches I ve come across and those aren t qualities you should have when taking up the demanding job as Indian boss. When the local media come out in their numbers, they can be relentless in their questioning in pursuit of juicy details. One night back in 2005 after the Proteas klapped India by 10 wickets in a one-dayer in Kolkata, the man clearly lost his cool with the passing questions from television crews outside their team bus and he flung a good ol middle finger towards them as he disappeared behind the door. What followed was actually the real joke, as he was forced to issue a statement explaining how he injured his finger during training before the match and how he was shaking his sore finger getting on to the bus. Yeah right buddy. Then who can ever forget Dean Jones being sacked for calling Hashim Amla a terrorist on air during a series the Proteas played in in Sri Lanka in 2006? The terrorist has got another wicket Jones was heard saying off the camera when Amla took a catch to dismiss Kumar Sangakkara. Just over a decade ago off-spinner Johan Botha was rushed into the South African squad during their tour of Australia, where he eventually made his Test debut in the third Test in Sydney. During an earlier match Australian commentators were discussing Botha, who at that stage was very much unknown as his international career was limited to a handful of one-dayers in India a month before. I distinctly remember Mark Nicholas, who is actually England-born but transformed himself into an Australian, saying how he would like to see this black spinner in action who hails from the Eastern Cape that is bustling with young talent. How shocking that not even a naturalised Aussie can get it right. All this reminds me of that old joke about the letter the distressed girl writes to her local newspaper s Agony Aunt. It goes along the lines of this guy she fell in love with that she can no longer hide from her family. She elaborates about his less-than-favourably family across the railroad tracks, his sailor-mouth, his stints in prison, his boozy existence, his heavy debt because of gambling, his seven children with seven different mothers &#8230; the list goes on. So finally, she gets to her question. Should I tell them he s an Australian?