Real-time transactions, including reconciliation and reporting, are now a reality for businesses, thanks to advances in integrated payment systems. Instant transactions can happen at all points in outlets, whether with suppliers or in-store at checkouts. The main advantages for retailers and consumers include accelerating the pace of transactional; reducing costs across the board; and tightening controls and security. However, currently retailers are slow to embrace this technology, exposing themselves to undue risk and cost. This is according to Eugene von Engelhardt, CEO of leading global payment technology firm Traderoot, who said retailers needed to ensure their systems were truly integrated online. Business success will increasingly depend on real-time payment processing and integration to back-office systems and the banking network. &#8220;Currently, retailers are too reliant on legacy systems to get more consumers to move through the queues quicker. Payment convergence is upon us, and retailers need to be ready, said Engelhardt, adding that retailers would need to reduce risk by including all payments into a central and common process. He said retailers had to be able to reliably process payments from consumers who used a mixture of credit and debit cards, cash, QR codes, vouchers, discount coupons, cheques and rewards programme points to make purchases. Advances in payment technology remove the complexity of accepting this vast range of payment tokens, reduce risk and add business intelligence to the task with real-time and fully reconciled transactions. Von Engelhardt said currently there was much behind-the-scenes juggling and human intervention that took place between a multitude of disparate IT systems when payments occured. ALSO READ: OR Tambo Airport introduces Smart Security He described how retailers could integrate their systems online. For example, in a restaurant franchise operation, franchisees have different accounting and ERP systems. Linking them to an integrated payment system means invoices and statements can be presented online and query dispute management happens in this space too, instantaneously. Payment turnaround is reduced to hours, if not minutes, rather than weeks. He said this efficiency and integration had to be extended to the mobile environment in retail, as smartphones and mobile devices would form the basis of consumer interaction with payment systems in the future. We re already starting to see this with the likes of Visa, Masterpass and local close-loop brands such as WiCode and Snapscan. These all add to payment complexity. In addition to payment convergence is the advent of omnicommerce a place where all tokens and transactions must happen conveniently via many channels from ATM and POS, to mobile and virtual (via cloud or web services). This will be used to procure virtual goods, process payments, secure settlement with reconciliation per event, per device or lane by product and include delivery confirmation. He added that security with complex payments was a reality for many retailers. The human element also has to be factored in to security. Concealed card skimmers can be used by shop staff or waiters. Real-time transactions on integrated systems significantly reduce that risk, concluded Von Engelhardt. Caxton News Service