Paraguay s Fabrizio Zanotti fired the first hole-in-one in Nedbank Golf Challenge history and leaped into a share of the lead before the second round at Sun City was interrupted by lightning on Friday. Zanotti had already birdied the first and second holes when he stood on the tee at the 195-metre par-three fourth hole and fired a seven-iron 20 feet from the flag and watched it curl beautifully into the hole. It was the first hole-in-one in the 36-year history of the Nedbank Golf Challenge, and it lifted the 33-year-old Zanotti to six-under-par for the tournament. He ironically bogeyed the next par-three, the 206-metre seventh but birdied the par-four eighth and reached the turn in 32 strokes when play was suspended due to lightning. Tall Englishman Chris Wood birdied the fifth, seventh and ninth holes and was sharing the lead with Zanotti. South Africans Louis Oosthuizen and George Coetzee were also enjoying excellent days and were tied for third place on five-under-par, along with Alejandro Canizares and Jeunghun Wang. Coetzee had just reached the turn, a bogey on the eighth interrupting an imperious stretch of three birdies in six holes, when the weather gods intervened, while Oosthuizen had blazed through 13 holes in five-under-par with birdies on the fourth, sixth, ninth, 10th and 11th holes. Wang, who was tied for the lead on four-under after the first round with Ross Fisher and Felipe Aguilar, had a great start to the second day with a confident birdie on the par-four first hole, but then had a run of seven straight pars as he returned to the pack. Fisher had costly back-to-back bogeys on the fifth and sixth holes, cancelling out two birdies, as he slipped into a tie for seventh on four-under-par, along with Sweden s Alex Noren and South African Jaco van Zyl, while Aguilar had dropped four shots in eight holes. Race to Dubai leader Henrik Stenson also had an awful day, three successive bogeys from the third hole seeing him plummet down the leaderboard, before he finally restored some equilibrium with four straight pars, reaching the turn when play was interrupted.