Whenever I glance at any company information, I usually calculate the simple ratio of Revenue per Employee. To me Revenue per Employee quotient is a key ratio for start-up companies. Low Revenue per Employee in comparison to similar companies is a bad sign, often boding possible failure.Consider a biscuits Production Company with sales of Tsh15 billion and 1,500 employees, the Revenue per Employee is definitely Tsh10 million. For another company, a maker of say toothbrush generates revenue of Tsh6 billion and had 250 employees shall definitely give a Revenue per Employee of Tsh24 million.These numbers look beautiful, right? However, companies usually fail for one of two basic reasons. Either, they fail at marketing their product/ service and generating sales. Else, they fail to keep the costs to produce and market their product sufficiently low.Some new companies have problems generating any sales at all! Failure to make sales shows up as low Revenue per Employee, though, as the owner, you will instinctively know when your sales are too low! But, as an investor calculating Revenue per Employee gives some measure of whether or not the business is generating adequate sales relative to its assets and people. If a company has a personal sales staff which approaches potential customers off site, the company probably calculates Sales per Salesperson as a measure of each salesperson s efficiency. This means Super-sellers would definitely depict superior performance over average-sellers.On above narrations, Revenue per Employee ratio is easy to calculate. The underlying explanation for differences might be quite complex. For example, it would be extremely difficult to bring the entire sales staff up to the performance of a sales superstar. Look behind the ratio to see how to improve a company.Similarly, the explanation for the difference between two similar companies having different Revenue per Employee ratios might not be obvious. Yet, as with Sales per Salesperson, Revenue per Employee is a good measure of relative success. However, correcting the deficiencies in a company with a low Revenue per Employee might be difficult, because the ratio often points to a weakness in that shadowy, unquantifiable region of management.In actual fact, efficient companies tend to have high Revenue per Employee. The hope is that if the company is efficient in its use of labor, it will probably be efficient in other areas, like purchasing and marketing.Company could calculate the dollars remaining from sales after all marketing expenses were subtracted, and what remained would need to cover all other non-marketing expenses, product costs, and provide a profit, you could subtract the average pay per employee from Revenue Per Employee to get a measure of how many dollars per employee are contributed to all other non-personnel expenses and provide a profit. However, a viable company might have low Revenue per Employee if the company is a service company, providing a labour intensive service, but with low labor cost.Be aware of the labour costs for the industry. A guy cleaning a rock with a brush won t earn the same as a computer programmer! Comparing Revenue per Employee across different industries could be misleading.For service companies, invariably more people hours are needed to render the service as sales grow. But, for successful product companies, sales might show explosive growth with a much lower addition to payroll. This is why a video production company has far lower Revenue per Employee than the maker of a toothbrush. Product companies leverage personnel more. Companies that provide services as business normally move away from pure service provision and try to create their own unique but related products. This is simply because they want to leverage their talents more after realizing that Revenue per Employee is only limited with pure service provided.Yet, service businesses have advantages over product businesses in that it is easier to grow and establish a strong cash flow with less need for capital investment. Given this, some product companies seek to diversify into service areas. In a nutshell, Revenue per Employee is an important ratio which business owners, entrepreneurs, and investors should consider when evaluating a business. It provides insight into a company when compareemail: lucbulili@yahoo.com