The Air Mauritius Jockeys International Challenge is being run at Turffontein today and it is an event in which I would love to ride. Just to be in an event comprising some of the top jockeys around the world, is our dream. To be able to represent your country and to know you have made it into that league is something everybody wants. As an apprentice I have participated in competitions in Macau and Korea. But if I got the opportunity to ride in places like Australia, the UK, Dubai, France, Singapore or Hong Kong, I would grab it with both hands. My goal for this year is to finish in the top five and right now I am in a three-way tie with Anthony Delpech and Greg Cheyne in second place on the log with 48 winners. If I can get anywhere closer it will be a bonus. I ve been getting chances from a lot of trainers which I appreciate. I just hope I can keep it up. Next week I ride Saratoga Dancer in the Sansui Summer Cup. I was very happy with his second place in the Charity Mile. His last few races have been excellent. In the Durban July he came from last to finish fifth and in the Champions Cup we got stuck in traffic and I just couldn t let him go. I think if everything went my way we could have fought it out with Marinaresco. Against him is that he doesn t have the best of draws but I worked him yesterday and he galloped well and I expect him to run in the top three. I think his best trip is definitely a mile but he stayed 2200m in July and 2000m in Champions Cup. They tend to go faster here and he settles better so I am hoping he runs on well. Racing is on the Inside track at Turffontein tomorrow and in Race 1 I think Pilou should be hard to beat. His debut effort was very good. He was green but ran on well. The form is all there and if he overcomes the draw I think he will win it. If there are any dangers I would say they are Military Award and Woodland Sage. I ride Woodland Sage. I expected this horse to win earlier in his career but he has had his problems. His last run no fluke. The Alexanders have dealt with his problems and he should run a decent race tomorrow. Race 2 looks very open but I like Bondiblu. I rode her last time and I rate her a very unlucky loser. Things went wrong but she still tried to win. I tried to get the ride again but there was a change to this race and I had already accepted another ride. Matsuri is a much better horse at Turffontein but I think Banking April will battle to win four in a row. She could run a place. Christmas Carol was highly rated by the stable and she s coming off a break, but if anywhere near where she used to be she would play with a field like this. Sisters Of Mercy has been running in some competitive fields lately and will win soon. I wouldn t be surprised if she won this. Snowdonia s last two runs are not convincing but I won well on her and thought she would be better than her recent form. She is working well at home and if she is the filly she was when I rode her last, she could run a place. Urgent Fury ran a very good run last time and if he repeats that he should be there again in Race 3. The dangers could be Cashin, who is 0.5kg better off with Belenos. He was pulling when he ran fourth behind Bold Rex who is decent. We will go with Urgent Fury and Cashin for the first leg of the Place Accumulator. In Race 4 I m making Hamaan the banker of the day. He has a good draw, good form and I m sure he will improve on his first run. He made up a lot of ground last time and you need ability to do that. If there is a danger it could be Devadip. He has not had the luck of the draw and unfortunately has not got it again. With the balance of the card looking very difficult you could banker Hamaan but if your pocket can afford it, add Devadip and perhaps Spanish Tune into the Pick 6. I ride Mr Tatler and I would be very happy to run a place. Race 5 is the first leg of the Jockeys International Challenge and this is very hard. The horses who can win have over 61kg but I think a top weight should win it. I can t split Turn Back Time and Flying Dream on form. Flying Dream is going for her hat-trick but has a bad draw so that could give Turn Back Time the edge. I rode Bonne Vie last time. She was very unlucky in that we got caught in a box and couldn t get out. She could have run second with luck. I think she is still immature and could improve. She s got a heavy weight but she has a little bit of class. She has a good draw and with the blinkers I would not be surprised if she ran well. In The Web is better than her last run and she could finish in the Quartet. For the PA go with Turn Back Time and Flying Dream and add the other two into the Pick 6. Race 6 is another tricky handicap but I like Lisnoble. He had a good run last time, enjoys the course and I make him a big runner. For second I will go with Duzi Moon. He looked a likely winner until Baracah flew up on his outside. He has a widish draw. After that look at Captain Chips, Fangia, Let s Go West, Bold Coast, Aquaboy and Patric, who made up a lot of ground in his first run after a maiden win. Ignore Bold Coast s last run. Everything went wrong but his earlier form is good. He has the blinkers, I have worked him with them on and he is a lot sharper. Expect him to run into the first four. For the PA go with Lisnoble and Fangia and for the Pick 6 add in all the others mentioned. Race 7 is another open handicap and many runners have chances. My first choice is between Aldiara and Seattle Lady. Over 1200m Seattle Lady has beaten the boys and the win over Duke Nukem was brilliant. Aldiara is also putting up some very good work at home as is Intriguing Lady. She s full of speed and I m glad she is coming back to 1200m. After those three it becomes very open. Celtic Lady won well last time. It is her first run around the turn but it might suit her. For the PA put in Seattle Lady, Intriguing Lady and Aldiara and for the Pick 6 add Save The Day, Celtic Lady, Embrasiatic and Samarra. In Race 8 my first choice is Honolua Bay. She s carried heavy weights before and won and I think she s due for another win. After that I would go with Electric Lady who has ability. Her second run was against the boys, she ran in the Nursery against Fursa and I can only see ability in this filly. After that I like Beautiful Shay, especially as the blinkers are back. She has a good draw and should run, at least, into the back end of Quartets. Chartwell and Flowing Gown also have some sort of chance. For the PA go with Honolua Bay and Electric Lady and for the Pick 6 add the other three. If there is a late change and blinkers are put on Heaven s Door, include her because she could improve big time with them on. In Race 9 I like my horse, Sha-Boom Sha-Boom. She has disappointed me. I thought she would win first time out but she was very green, jumped slowly and when she did start running it was at a canter. She is still very immature but she is improving and if she can overcome the draw I think she s good enough to win. My dangers will be Emily Jay from No 2 draw and Rose Water who is ultra-consistent. Mooring Star on her work is much better than her first run indicates. I can t explain that bad run but there s definitely improvement to come. For the PA go with Sha-Boom Sha-Boom and Emily Jay and add the other two into the Pick 6.