Even though they left a trail of destruction claiming the lives of several people, the recent storms have contributed to a slight rise in dam levels, the water affairs department said yesterday. Speaking to The Citizen, spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said some of the downpours occured in a number of vital catchment areas. The Vaal Dam recently reached alarmingly low levels of about 25%, prompting authorities to begin replenishment work, which is expected to be concluded by year-end. This meant releasing volumes of water from the Sterkfontein Dam, which is used as storage reserve into the Vaal Dam. The Vaal Dam levels were yesterday at 32.3%. Some of the released water has already reached the Vaal Dam and the saving of water by some residents due to water restrictions has also assisted. Despite this, water restrictions that were implemented by several municipalities including Johannesburg and Tshwane will remain in place, Ratau said. He went on to say that it was difficult to say exactly which areas had recorded somewhat of a reduction in water consumption, but municipalities such as Ekurhuleni and Emfuleni were not there yet; he stressed the importance of people continuing to using water sparingly. Our message is still the same and that is for everyone to heed calls for water to be used responsibly, he said. The cities of Tshwane and Johannesburg implemented level 2 water restrictions, which, among others, prohibit users from making use of hosepipes to wash cars or paving areas, as well as watering gardens between 6am and 6pm. Meanwhile, as the SA Weather Service has recently said that the country has now officially entered a thunderstorm season , residents in several parts of the country can expect some showers this week. According to forecaster Lulama Menze, in Gauteng there is a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers on the cards for today. Gauteng has been among the hardest hit by the recent fatal and damaging weather conditions. A three-year-old toddler who was swept away about two weeks ago during floods is yet to be found, despite a search operation that started in Alexandra and has stretched as far as Hartbeespoort Dam in North West. Menze said the chances of rainfall were expected to increase from midweek. Daytime temperatures are expected to remain in the warm category for the better part of this week. stevent@citizen.co.za