Dar es Salaam. Young Africans players know little about the would-be head coach, George Lwandamina, but they are already preparing mentally to work under him.The Zambian, who is renowned as a strict disciplinarian, has not been confirmed as the successor of Han van der Pluijm, but he is in Dar es Salaam after resigning at Zesco FC last week.The former Zesco coach, who is rumoured to have inked a two-year deal at Jangwani, followed Yanga s victory against Shooting Ruvu over the weekend.Speaking with The Citizen yesterday, Rwandan midfielder Haruna Niyonzima said they were ready to play under Lwandamina, stressing that they have powers to reject any coach brought in by the management. I am part of the playing body. I am not the right person to choose the coach, said the midfield kingpin whose performance against Ruvu Shooting impressed Lwandamina.He added: It is the job of the management and the people up there to choose the coach. I am not the one to choose coaches. We are ready to work with any coach they hire. We have won titles with Pluijm and now we are sitting second in the premiership. For me, he has done a tremendous job at Yanga. No doubt about that. Yanga slippery winger Simon Msuva said they were only focussed on training under the Dutchman until the management confirms changes.However, he admitted that as players they welcome the Zambian should the management go for a shakeup of the technical bench. Everybody likes Pluijm. We have been very successful with him during the past two seasons. However, as a player I am ready to work with any coach, said the 22-year-old forward.Meanwhile, The Citizen has learnt that the Zambian coach will take up the reins sooner rather than later.The club insider, who sought anonymity, said the management was finalising negotiation over termination of Pluijm s contract. It won t take long before Lwandamina succeeds Pluijm as the club s head coach. Pluijm has been with us for a long time and has guided our club to glory several times; we respect him, so we want to relieve him of the coaching roles in a dignified way, he said. He added: His assistant (Juma Mwambusi) will also go. So we are looking forward to a new technical bench for the second part of Premier League and African Champions League. Lwandamina is a good coach. He helped Zesco reach to the 2016 edition of the CAF champion s League semi-finals. We have got a real gem. Pluijm on his fatePluijm dismissed media reports that he has already been notified of the incoming head coach.The Dutch tactician, who has a vast experience of African football, said he was aware of the rumours circulating through various media platforms over the arrival of Lwandamina, but stressed that her was still the head coach. I have read a lot about me being dismissed and Lwandamina taking over, but I am still the head coach of Yanga and if there is any decision I will duly informed, said Pluijm.He added: I don t want to speak much about this, but I only signed a contract in June, so I wonder why the speculations in the media. The coach said he was proud of his record at Yanga no matter what the management will decide over his future. It will be interesting to find out what will unfold thereafter.Yanga respondsClub s acting secretary general Baraka Deusdedit said Pluijm has not been sacked, stressing that he was still in control of the team and any will be communicated. Don t believe in rumours. Pluijm is still the Yanga head coach, nothing has changed and when there is a change, we will inform the public immediately, he said.