Listening to Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba defending the ANC&#8217;s decision to retain Jacob Zuma as president of South Africa in the parliamentary debate on Thursday, Gigaba again glibly spoke about how South Africa&#8217;s democracy was a &#8220;young&#8221; one. But is it? It&#8217;s become one of those things we have come to say almost without thinking and many have come to take it for granted. It goes with other phrases such as &#8220;only 22 years into our democracy&#8221;. Only 22 years eh? The truth is that 22 years is a long time. Twenty-two years after the end of World War 2 by 1967 Europe had already managed to rebuild much of itself after being just about completely flattened by the Nazis. Even Japan, despite two atomic bombs blowing it to smithereens, was a rising industrial power. What do you think East Germany which had been frozen in something of a development time capsule for 45 years looked like only 22 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall? Well, I&#8217;ll tell you. It looked even better than the rest of Germany: newer, more modern, more hopeful, better. In Germany, 22 years allowed the capitalist side to drag its neglected communist conjoined twin right into the very heart of the modern, developed 20th and 21st centuries. What do you think North Korea would look like 22 years from now if South Korea (you know, that part of that Asian country that makes all those Kias, Hyundais and Samsung and LG gadgets we so desire) were to take over its near-medieval communist neighbour? Do you honestly think most North Koreans would still be starving and wondering what a TV is 22 years later? Just consider how very different the world was in 1967 compared with 1945. Consider how different most of the world is now, in 2016 going on 2017, compared with those distant, grainy days of 1994. In 1994, barely anyone had a computer. Forget about the internet and cellphones. Let&#8217;s not even consider what 22 years means for countries if we want to put in perspective that Mozart only lived to the age of 35 and composed most of his greatest music over about 22 years from his teenage years onwards. Very few great bands stay together for longer than 22 years. Twenty-two years is the near-miraculous period of time it takes for any human being to go from being no more than a single cell to someone who&#8217;s more or less fully educated and expected to be independent and responsible. Most other creatures on this earth never even live nearly that long. Just ask your dog or cat how long they think 22 years is. But still the ANC likes to talk about how young our democracy is. I suspect it&#8217;s because doing this allows the party partly to keep peddling the lie that it hasn&#8217;t had enough time to radically transform the lives of the poor and put the country on a rapid path towards development. Sure, they have endless excuses, some of them valid but just think about what all those misspent and wasted hundreds and hundreds of billions we now know were mismanaged could have done over a period of 22 years (R700 billion lost to corruption alone after the first 20 years). At a certain point, the excuses begin to ring hollow. They should ring hollow. There have undoubtedly been many successes that the party can rightly be proud of. But is it enough? And are we slowing down? We seem to be. As long as the ANC can continue to talk about how young and fresh we are as a democracy well, then &#8230; they can go on a little longer in not being properly accountable for the state we&#8217;re in. The young can get away with things, right? But you only have to look at the mounting scandals in our headlines, year after year, to see that what used to be a BIG scandal when our democracy really was young (such as Travelgate) would probably not even make page 5 of a Sunday newspaper today. We are not young and naive. We are old, scheming and plundering more than ever. Even the median age in the ANC is started to reach major decrepitude, with the governing party expecting us to believe that bloated, unquestioning zombies like the Youth League&#8217;s Collen Maine and Njabulo Nzuza are the future. Compared with Nenegate, state capture, the nuclear deal, the disasters of our parastatals and so on, even the arms deal of the 1990s seems quaint. There&#8217;s nothing young or innocent about us any more, and even just a passing look at the angry youth on campuses should make that painfully obvious. But the one big lesson of history the ANC is no doubt most trying to avoid by harping on about our &#8220;young democracy&#8221; is the uncomfortable truth that almost all African liberation movements reach their sell-by date after 20 years of democracy. Few are able to make the transition from freedom fighter to administrator, and after 20 years the rot truly begins to set in. By the year 2000 that was particularly evident after exactly 20 years for Zanu-PF and Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe. When Zimbabwe&#8217;s economy started melting away, was anyone still calling them a young democracy? No, of course not. So, sorry Malusi Gigaba, our democracy is far from young. It&#8217;s definitely more than old enough to know better. And so are you. Charles Cilliers, Citizen.co.za digital editor