Edward Zuma, the eldest son of President Jacob Zuma, has admitted that he too visited the now infamous spa in Mbombela where State Security Minister David Mahlobo was pictured with a self-proclaimed rhino poacher. However, Zuma believes that the airing of the footage by broadcaster Al Jazeera is part of a wider conspiracy against his father. We all know the state security minister is just caught up in a battle of power and the spa he is said to be a regular at is not true, as regulars are myself, Mathews Phosa and others, which doesn t make us criminals, Zuma said. Despite repeated requests to say who the others were, Zuma declined to answer. Mahlobo found himself mired in controversy when undercover footage was aired on Al Jazeera showing local Chinese businessman Guang Jiang Guang bragging about his connections with the minister and even showed a picture of him posing with the minister. Mahlobo had denied links to the poacher, but has admitted visiting the spa. In a statement released on November 13, Mahlobo s spokesman Brian Fikani Dube said the photo that appeared in the documentary and in the Sunday papers is a photo taken when the minister was being treated at a manicure table and Guang requested a photo to be taken . Edward Zuma said he believed the airing of the documentary was part of a master plan funded by rich people. The plotters of the president are those that wanted positions and didn t get them, like [former general secretary of Congress of South African Trade Unions Zwelinzima] Vavi. They have colluded in their mission to oust Zuma, he said. ALSO READ: Please keep Zuma, we need him Mpofu Other people he named included former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel, Chief Executive Officer of Barclays Africa Group Limited Maria Ramos, businessman Johan Rupert, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, and many more . He went further to claim that the reason they are against his father is that Zuma has discovered the looting they have been and continue to do in government . Zuma said that Sipho Pityana and Frank Chikane both of whom have been highly critical of his father in recent times were simply pawns in the power struggle. The mastermind behind all this is a well-known billionaire using pawns seated in Luthuli House. Edward is the eldest son of president Jacob Zuma and a fierce supporter of his father, who has been facing increased calls to step down as head of state since a report on so-called state capture was made public this month. The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (known as the Hawks) have said they are investigating the alleged relationship. The owner of the spa should, in all honesty, be arrested if he is a criminal, said Zuma. Photos of Phosa and staff members from the spa were posted on social media last week. A photo of Phosa s wife with staff members from the same spa was also sent to African News Agency (ANA). Phosa confirmed the authenticity of both photos and said that the women in the photos were indeed from the Mbombela-based spa. They came to my house to massage family members, he said. The spa was a genuine spa, he said, and not a so-called massage parlour. Phosa, contrary to Edward Zuma s claims, said he had never visited the spa and agreed that the photos could be part of a disinformation campaign . Phosa is one of many veterans within the ruling party who has called for Jacob Zuma to step down as head of state. Speaking in Pietermaritzburg on Friday evening, President Zuma echoed Edward s words, saying that those accusing him of stealing were themselves stealing. In May, Zuma opened a case of corruption against Rupert after Rupert called on the president to resign for the sake of the children . Zuma had previously told ANA that the plotters could no longer hold back their hatred for his father. -African News Agency