Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in men. Prostate cancer usually grows slowly and initially remains confined to the prostate gland, where it may not cause any harm.However, some types of prostate cancer grow slowly and may need minimal or no treatment while other types are aggressive and can spread quickly. Prostate cancer can occur to all men above 40 years. However, African &amp; American men are more prone to it.Common signsThe most common signs and symptoms for prostate cancer are; trouble urinating, decreased force in the stream of urine, blood in semen and urine, urgency to urinate, increased frequency of urination, discomfort in the pelvic area, pain during urination and sexual intercourse. It is best to visit a doctor if you have any of the above symptoms.Prostate cancer begins when some cells in your prostate become abnormal. Mutations in the abnormal cells DNA cause the cells to grow and divide more rapidly than normal cells do.The abnormal cells continue living, when other cells would die. The accumulating abnormal cells form a tumor that can grow to invade nearby tissue. Some abnormal cells can break off and spread to other parts of the body, this can then cause death.Prostate cancer has three main complications. The first being the spread of the cancer to other parts of the body, urine incontinence and erectile dysfunction as well. It is important to note that after prostate surgery a person becomes infertile.Methods of diagnosisThe main methods of diagnosis are digital rectal exam and prostate-specific antigen.Digital rectal exam (DRE): During a DRE, your doctor inserts a gloved, lubricated finger into your rectum to examine your prostate, which is adjacent to the rectum.If your doctor finds any abnormalities in the texture, shape or size of your gland, you may need more tests. This test is the most reliable and accepted worldwide.Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test: A blood sample is drawn from a vein in your arm and analyzed for PSA, a substance that s naturally produced by your prostate gland. It s normal for a small amount of PSA to be in your bloodstream. However, if a higher than normal level is found, it may be an indication of prostate infection, inflammation, enlargement or cancer.Both PSA testing combined with DRE helps identifying and confirming prostate cancers at their earliest stages.If an abnormality is detected on a DRE or PSA test, your doctor may recommend further tests to determine whether you have prostate cancer or not, these are:Ultrasound: If other tests raise concerns, your doctor may use transrectal ultrasound to further evaluate your prostate. A small probe, about the size and shape of a cigar, is inserted into your rectum. The probe uses sound waves to make a picture of your prostate gland.Collecting a sample of prostate tissue: If initial test results suggest prostate cancer, your doctor may recommend a procedure to collect a sample of cells from your prostate (prostate biopsy). Prostate biopsy is often done using a thin needle that s inserted into the prostate to collect tissue. The tissue sample is analysed in a lab to determine whether cancer cells are present.There are numerous treatments that range from chemotherapy, hormonal therapy and surgical procedures. Surgical procedures are the most common and effective treatment combined with hormonal therapy in order to treat prostate cancer.