Education as an investment into the future of the youth has proved to not be an easy way out of the cycle of poverty and unemployment for young people, a new local study has found. The Youth Unemployment Study, the first of its kind in South Africa, was undertaken by the Centre for Social Development in Africa (CSDA) at the University of Johannesburg and focused on the impact that youth employability programmes had on young people in the country. It was released yesterday in Johannesburg. &#8220;A key human development assumption is that investment in education can break the cycle of poverty. However, youth in this study have higher levels of education and many have completed some form of post-secondary education or have a training qualification, yet they still face unemployment and poverty,&#8221; Prof Lauren Graham, associate professor and CSDA deputy director, said yesterday. Some 91% of the 2000 young people participating in youth employability programmes surveyed nationally in the study have achieved matric certificate and 35% completed post-secondary qualification. More than half of the participants had some work experience typically lasting under a year and ending with the end of the contract. The study is a joint initiative with the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, eight youth employability organisations and Standard Bank. It was funded by Jobs Fund, the Ford Foundation and the National Youth Development Agency. Graham said this significant finding points not only to wider economic challenges that underlie structural unemployment and systematic failures in education, but also other barriers keeping talented youths out of job opportunities. &#8220;One of the main barriers identified is the high cost of seeking work. The youth pay about R550 per month on transport, internet cost, printing and copying. Other areas that keep them out include lack of information about job search and application. About 57% search the internet and then make &#8216;blind applications&#8217;. Despite young people reportedly making 2-3 applications per month, in the three months preceding the study, 80% of them remain unemployed,&#8221; Grahams said. Responding to a question from The Citizen, Graham said an assessment team was deployed country wide and they actually visited the young people and distributed questionnaires at sites nationally, in the major metropolitan areas and a few rural sites. They went again the second time to visit the same and follow ups were done telephonically and online. &#8220;What our research is telling us is that young people need mechanisms which, not only harness their potential but also link them and keep them connected to the labour market,&#8221;Graham said. Prof Leila Patel, CSDA director, added that youth unemployment is primarily driven by low labour absorption indicating the need for economic policies that will stimulate job creation and demand for young work seekers.