Moves are apparently afoot by President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s supporters in parliament to frustrate ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu with the aim of unseating him as punishment for his anti-Zuma stance. Mthembu is one of the top ANC leaders to call for Zuma, and the entire ANC national executive committee, to step down in the light of fraud charges laid against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Mthembu also included the party&#8217;s embarrassing losses at the polls in the last elections as another reason for the ANC to take collective responsibility and fall on its sword. However, NPA boss Shaun Abrahams has since withdrawn the charges against Gordhan and his two co-accused. A parliamentary source claimed that some ANC MPs deliberately withheld their votes on the important Division of Revenue Amendment Bill as part of a ploy by Zuma&#8217;s allies to frustrate Mthembu so that he fails as chief whip. The alleged plan is for him to fail so that he can be removed from the influential position. ALSO READ: Treasury warns of urgency to pass Division of Revenue Amendment Bill The delay to pass the Bill meant a delay in releasing funds for service delivery, payments to service providers and salaries of politicians and civil servants. In an interview with the Saturday Citizen on Friday, however, Mthembu dismissed any plan to unseat him. If there is such a view, it is a misinformed view. I don t agree with such a view, but I agree with the view that says there is ill-discipline among our own members in parliament, Mthembu said. Mthembu lashed out at the ANC MPs, saying they had put the party on the back foot. It is the ANC that they have embarrassed. Who in his right mind would do such a thing? Mthembu said. He said 209 ANC MPs were supposed to vote for the Bill. But only 193 voted while other ANC politicians left without voting, along with the opposition. Those listed to be excluded from the action are those who attended the Marrakech COP-22 Conference in Morocco, education portfolio committee members participating in the NCOP parliamentary visit to the Eastern Cape, members on executive business and those who booked off sick. The Bill has been put on the parliamentary agenda for Tuesday and Mthembu is confident it will be passed this time. He said no ANC MP would be allowed to be absent.