Not even a 70-minute storm could halt the action at Turffontein Race Course on Saturday during the 2016 edition of the Peermont Emperors Palace Charity Mile. This year, the 16 celebs tied to the event skimped on extravagance, showing up to the races in edited looks and rooting for their paired horses. The celebs represented 16 charities, which collectively took home R10 million on the day. Amanda Du-Pont, dressed by global luxury brand Prada, stood out on the day. In terms of men s style, celebs opted for the traditional suit-andtie look. Vilje Maritz wore a royal blue suit, as did the big winner of the day, boxer Kevin Lerena. ALSO READ: How to get celebs to attend your wedding He won R150 000 for the Peermont Education Trust. Lerena was paired with New Predator, ironically ridden by his cousin, Gavin Lerena. The four-year-old Australian import was trained by Johan Janse van Vuuren, who also had four winners on the day. TV host Katlego Maboe showed a grey suit translated well for day-parties this summer. Rugby player Courtnall Skosan, there with his wife and recent Mrs South Africa finalist Semone, looked smart and slick in a charcoal suit. Except for the celebrities dotting the race course, several social media stars congregated next to the track at the TripleB Festival area. Style blogger Keabe Mautla kept it simple with a white bellsleeve dress from Matte Nolim in Johannesburg. Thabiso Makhubela from 94.7 mixed an embroidered golf shirt with a rolled headscarf a hot trend in Johannesburg s social functions. Brendon Gumede, known on social media app Instagram as Fulufhelo B, looked bold, thanks to a geometrically printed sports jacket by designer Thaddeus, paired with pastel pants. Zimbabwean model and fashion blogger Kim Robinson wore a flowy gown with a plunging neckline with lengthy deep slits. And if you weren t seen snapping a picture of yourself at the Peermont Emperors Palace Charity Mile 2016, you weren t making the most of your weekend. But don t fret. The Sansui Summer Cup is around the corner, and Turffontein will light up once again with the best personalities and thoroughbred horses.