The Palm Ridge Magistrate s Court on Thursday, dismissed a claim by one of the men charged with the rape and double murder of two couples in Rhodes Park, that he was assaulted and pressurised into making a statement. Judge Papi Masopa dismissed Edmore Ndlovu s claims that he was assaulted by the police and pressurised into making a statement implicating him on the double murder and rape in Rhodes Park last year. I have come to a conclusion that the statement was voluntary made, the accused was in his sober senses, said Masopa. The trial-within-a-trial was held to decide the admissibility of certain evidence in the case. Ndlovu was the second accused to take the stand after his co-accused Thabo Nkala, 25. Mduduzi Lawrence Mathibela, 32, is expected to take a stand on Friday. All three men claim they were severely assaulted and coerced into making statements linking them to the crime. The judge poked holes in Ndlovu s testimony after he gave contradicting statements on the day of his arrest and could not even give a clear indication on the manner of how he was assaulted. ALSO READ: Two pupils in court after murdering school secretary Ndlovu looked confused and kept apologising and told Masopa that he misunderstood some of his questions. Mr Ndlovu, you forgot details on how you were severely assaulted, asked Masopa. Ndlovu spoke softly and again apologised for his memory loss. After cross examination, Prosecutor Mutuwa Nengovhela told the court that Ndlovu was not a credible witness. If accused number one [Nkala] was bad, number two [Ndlovu] was worse. Nengovhela told the court that Ndlovu had ample time to notify lower courts about his assault and never did. Masopa asked Ndlovu s lawyer Robert Xaba if he could connect the alleged assault with the confession. Your client said he was assaulted because police wanted him to reveal Mdu, he didn t say it s because police wanted him to confess. Xaba failed to convince the court that his client was assaulted. Xaba, must I rely on that evidence, he doesn t even know what happened on the day of his arrest. This was just a waste time, it s as if he didn t testify. Accused number one [Nkala] and number two [Ndlovu] gave the same story of police officers who arrested and assaulted them, even though they were arrested on different days. You can tell they discussed it somewhere together, Masopa said. He ordered Colonel Lilian Ndlovu who took Ndlovu s statement to read out his confession in court as part of the evidence. His confession confirmed that he had gone to the park on October 17, 2015, with a group of friends with intentions to rob. When we got to the park, we spread into two groups. Mdu had a toy gun and he gave another one to Small. Mdu pointed four people with a gun and order them to lie down. Me and my group ran towards the people on the ground, they told us they had nothing. The female started praying and Small assured her nothing will happen and she should stop praying. His statement continued to explain that they took certain items from the couples but Mdu was aggravated because the people didn t have money. Mdu ordered the males to undress and took their pants and also ordered them to get into the water. Cosmos cut the ladies panties with a knife. Stanley said we should leave but Mdu refused. We left Mdu and Cosmos. Myself, Stanley, Small, Rasta, Brian, Bigshow we left, the statement read. In his statement, he continued to explain that they later regrouped and they asked Mdu what happened to the people and Mdu said they took the men out of the water and left. According to Ndlovu s account of details he only learned about the deaths of the males after watching news but he maintained that they were alive when he left the park. The trial within a trial will continue on Friday to decide the admissibility of Mathibela s statement. &#8211; African News Agency