For the first time in seven seasons, Idols SA crowned a queen as Pietermaritzburg s Noma Khumalo was named this year s winner. In a tight race against fellow KZN rival, Thami Shobede, the substitute teacher was announced the ultimate Idol after a record vote that saw over 83 million votes cast throughout Season 12. Carnival City s Big Top Arena reverberated with screams of excitement, loud applause and name chants as the live audience and TV viewers were treated to one sensational act after another. There were pyrotechnics, a laser light show and some of the best live music in Mzansi on Sunday. The thrill-a-minute showcase got off to a dazzling start as this season s Top 10 reunited on stage, performing This Is What You Came For by Calvin Harris featuring Rihanna. The fireworks continued as AKA blessed the country with an exclusive Idols debut of two new singles, all while standing on top of a grand piano. It doesn t get any more Super Mega than that! Romance was the order of the evening as the Top Two performed Afro-soul love jams with local superstars known for their top-charting, heartstring-pulling tracks. Noma paired with Nathi for the track Noma Kanjani, while Thami sang Sobabili with a pearl-draped Kelly Khumalo. The audience delightfully lapped up every single minute of the performances. More entertainment came in the form Season 11 winner Karabo, Idols judge Unathi who reunited with her kwaito collaborator Zola, the Top 10 again with Beyonce s Flawless as well as this year s Wooden Mic winner Mbishop Shezi performing an operatic duet that had the crowd their feet. ALSO READ: Why Mbishop is our Idols SA winner The last week of being Idols SA contestants was anything but relaxed for Noma and Thami. Last week they recorded their singles, and this week shot the videos which were debuted on the show. Before the life-changing result was announced, Noma and Thami treated everyone to their last performances as contestants on the stage. Noma was sensational as she covered Mariah Carey s Without You while Thami brought the house down with Stevie Wonder s Signed Sealed Delivered, both accompanied by the reigning winners of Clash of The Choirs. After Noma was announced the winner, she treated viewers and audiences to her single Want It to Feel Like It Did with You as confetti rained down on her. Noma Khumalo, a former substitute teacher, is crowned Idols SA winner. Picture: Supplied.