The Democratic Alliance (DA) has laid a complainant with the office of the public protector against State Security Minister David Mahlobo for misleading parliament and the public about personally knowing #FeesMustFall student leader Mcebo Dlamini. ALSO READ: Put up united ratings front, says Cabinet On Wednesday, Mahlobo told the National Assembly that Dlamini has never been to his home before despite having admitted on Monday during a panel discussion hosted by the Institute of Security Studies (ISS) that Dlamini has been in my house several times . Mahlobo told a bald-faced lie in the National Assembly when responding to an oral question from DA MP Prof Belinda Bozzoli he stated that #FeesMustFall student leader and criminally accused Mcebo Dlamini has never been to his home. He further suggested that the visit was not a fact and simply gleaned from a newspaper article DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters said. During the panel discussion Mahlobo also denied being behind Dlamini&#8217;s arrest. The controversial student leader was arrested last month and spent about three weeks behind bars. He was charged with malicious damage to property, theft, assault and public violence during student protests at Wits University. The Economic Freedom Fighter s Twitter account had posted a video clip of the ISS panel discussion exposing his conflicting statements. Must Watch Minister David Mahlobo lie in Parliament about Mcebo Dlamini being in his house pic.twitter.com/h79qSFwWQT &mdash; EFF Official Account (@EFFSouthAfrica) November 17, 2016 The minister earlier this week was implicated in alleged illicit rhino poaching in an expos broadcast by Qatar-based news network Al Jazeera. The investigation revealed how members of the Chinese president s delegation that arrived in South Africa in December 2015 with President Xi Jinping allegedly went on an illegal spending spree to buy ivory and rhino horn. A Chinese national Guan Jiang Guang, an owner of a massage parlour in Mpumalanga, which Mahlobo frequently visited, alleged that Mahlobo was a customer of his massage girls and that his wife was the one involved in projects in the forefront, while the minister was behind the scenes . Mahlobo has denied the allegations and has vowed to clear his name amid calls from the DA for President Jacob Zuma to suspend him pending investigations. Waters said considering how confidently Mahlobo lied about his relationship with Dlamini one can only wonder whether his pained denial of his friendship with self-confessed criminal and rhino horn smuggler Guan Jiang Guang is similarly deceitful . ALSO READ: NUM rallies behind Zuma, lashes out at critics 