The streets around Montecasino in Fourways, in the north of Johannesburg, were painted with pink on Saturday morning as about 7 000 people took to the streets to protest against women and child abuse. This was in the 11th annual 1st For Women Sisters with Blisters protest walk which comes a day after the start of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. While there was a lively, carnival atmosphere at the walk, there was a serious underlying message to stop abuse against women and children. The turnout brought to life the clich that strength lies in numbers. The walkers were jovial in spirit and dressed to make statements in striking outfits, such as tutus, glitter, angel wings and some daring participants even walked the 5km route in high heels. Some dogs took part in the walk too and many were dressed for the cause, wearing tutus or decorated with balloons or fairy wings. Even dogs dressed up for the walk. The walk ended the Montecasino s outdoor area, where walkers received medals resembling two plasters. The medals resembled two plasters. Once the walk was complete, the walkers could kick back and relax with a pamper parlour and food stalls. For those still feeling energetic, there were jumping castles, and for those who wanted to take the opportunity to learn about the impact of abuse, the two beneficiaries of the walk had stalls to educate walkers. The beneficiaries were Women and Men against Child Abuse and the Centre for Community Justice and Development. ALSO READ: Walk to mobilise against the rising tide of women and child abuse Casey Rousseau, spokesperson for 1st for Women Insurance and the 1st for Women Foundation said the cause was close to 1st for Women. Kevin Fine, Jacaranda FM s general manager said, Over the last 10 years, through Sisters with Blisters, we have raised millions of rands to assist those affected by this social scourge. As a station, we are committed to raising not only the funds but the awareness needed to effect social change; together with 1st for Women, we are roaring for the cause, using our loud hailer and all our engagement assets to make the message loud and clear we won t tolerate abuse. Chris-Mari Dames, Juane Dames, Elsabe Retief, Anjune Erasmus and Annelise Erasmus. Festive atmosphere at the #SisterswithBlisters walk pic.twitter.com/jXt1kXnWju &mdash; Daniella Potter (@DpDaniella) November 26, 2016 Caxton News Service