Dar es Salaam. A day after Ugandan forward Emmanuel Okwi rubbished rumours linking him with Simba SC, the club registration committee has come out insisting that they are in pursuit of the 23-year-old attacker.Okwi, who plies his trade at Sonderjyske of Denmark, is currently in Kampala and laughed off the rumours saying he had no contact with the Msimbazi Street giants.However, Simba registration committee chairman Zacharia Hans Poppe went on record yesterday saying that they were lining up a lucrative offer that would see him return to the club during this mid-season transfer window.Hans Poppe said they were finalising raising some $120,000 (roughly Sh261m) as transfer fee of the Ugandan forward from the Danish side. We are still working on this transfer. We really want him back at the club where he enjoyed success, he was quoted as saying on various sports portals. We are currently getting set before tabling a $120,000 transfer fee to Sonderjiske. It is our hope that they will okay it and release the player to Simba. He had two successful stints with us, so we believe that he will be excited to reunite with the Simba fans who still sing his praise. He disclosed that they would give him a one-year contract that will be renewable depending on how he will perform during the second half of the Vodacom Premier League. Our ambition is to win the league this season and Okwi is our top priority because he understands well the Tanzanian soccer besides his international experience. He has what it takes to propel us to glory, he added.Simba top the league with 35 points, two points ahead of defending champions Young Africans. Azam sit third with 25 points.On Wednesday, media reports in Tanzania and Kenya described the deal as good as done.And in a brief interview, Okwi quashed everything: It s not true, he said. I have also merely heard the rumours. The former SC Villa forward went further to deny any agreement and revealed he is not in communication with officials from Simba as alleged. There is nothing agreed upon and I am not in communication with Simba. Okwi left the club last year for Denmark but has struggled to earn playing time at Sonderjyske with less than five appearances to his name.