There was a zebra crossing of a literal kind on a busy Germiston road this morning as a zebra mare was spotted running in the streets by caring residents, reports the Germiston City News. Melissa Guimbra, a member of the Lambton Klip Sector Four CPF (LKCPF), saw the frightened zebra at 9.30am on Monday running in front of her on the road from Rand Airport towards Gosforth Park. In the veld near the Germiston Golf Club. She immediately contacted the CPF and Pine Pienaar, vice-chairperson of the LKCPF who put out a call on the radio and the patrollers WhatsApp group for people to respond. LKCPF patrollers were the first on scene, followed by EMPD officers and then the Germiston SPCA. The vet examines the zebra. Cathy Valente and Johannes Rabalao from the Germiston SPCA responded. Valente said they called the National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) as well as the Edenvale SPCA for help. Arno de Klerk, an inspector from the NSPCA s Wildlife Protection Unit, quickly came out to the scene and with the help of CPF patrollers and SPCA staff, the zebra was caught. The zebra being taken care of by a vet, SPCA employees and Lambton Klip Sector Four CPF patrollers, on Monday. She was then darted by a wildlife vet, Dr Robert Campbell, before being loaded into a transport box, De Klerk said. We transported her to a boma, where she ll stay under veterinary observation until she s recovered. De Klerk told the GCN that the mare had a few scrapes and abrasions on her chest and legs, but no major injuries. When she arrived at the boma, she appeared calm, and by Tuesday she d drunk some water and was doing well. She appears to be a good candidate for rehabilitation, and when she s recovered, she ll be released at a nature reserve, De Klerk said. He added the owner of the animal was welcome to contact the NSPCA, as it was unknown where the zebra came from at this stage. De Klerk said the unit received cases of this nature quite often. People must remember that they need permits to keep and transport all indigenous animals, he added. At the boma. Caxton News Service More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.