Dar es Salaam. By failing to control his emotions to the extent of shedding tears before the television cameras to vent out his agony that he could not access a loan facility for university education, Edson Mwakyombe, was telling the world that a good number of students were, and still, face a similar predicament.In an interview with The Citizen on Sunday, Edson, who has secured an admission to the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) to pursue a Bachelor degree in Arts with Education, said he broke into tears after recalling the ups and downs he has so far gone through in his educational journey. My father passed away in 2011 after a long illness. Soon after falling sick I had to spend most of my time attending to my father instead of studying. As a result, I earned a fourth division in Form Four national exams, he says.His father, Wisdom Mwakyombe, a former Sao Hill Industries employee in Mufindi District, Iringa Region, fell sick in 2007 when Edson was in Standard Seven.Since then, he couldn t engage into productive activities to generate income for the family until his death in 2011. In that year Edson was in Form Four at Joseph Mungai Secondary School in the district.His mother, Alice, who, apart from engaging in smallholding farming, also conducts some petty business in the district, shouldered the responsibility of heading the household. She had to fend for Edson and his two young brothers.Alice advised Edson to go for a diploma in accountancy at Tumaini University due to his poor Form Four results.Edson was adamant and told his mother that he wanted to proceed with Advanced Level Secondary Education. This meant he had to resit some subjects in order to get the required credits.His bid was supported by the fact that pursuing a diploma would be difficult as the tuition fee was beyond the family s means. Students pursuing that course paid Sh1.5 million as tuition fees, and there were some more expenses. There was no way my mother could have obtained so much money, Edson recalls.Yet, she stood her grounds regarding having her son resit the exams because experience showed that it was a near impossible mission to pass under the arrangement.So, Edson says, he decided to invole a local pastor in order to soften his mother. This worked. He then registered at Sophist Education Centre where he studied History, Geography, Mathematics, English Language, Kiswahili and Civics for 10 months effectively from December 2012.He sat for secondary school examinations at Kwelu Secondary School located in Mkwawa as a private candidate in 2013 and successfully cleared the bad omen which surrounded his earlier results.After acquiring requisite qualifications he joined Kawawa JKT Secondary School for A-Level studying History, Geography and English Language. When results were released mid-this year he scored Division One of 8 points.He was then posted to Kanembwa JKT in Kigoma for National Service training. It was during that time that he visited the Higher Education Students Loans Board (HESLB) website to establish whether he conformed for loans to cover his university studies.Given his pass marks, he says, he was confident that he would secure a place at the university. This was apart from the fact that he came from a family headed by a single parent and having had studied in ordinary government school. My educational journey is tough. School fees could not be raised in time, as a result, I was often sent home for lack of it, he recalls. Since my mother could hardly raise the money I had to help her in her petty business until when there was enough money for me to pay as my fees, he adds.Furthermore, he says, Edson consulted with young men and women coming from his village and who were university students on how to go about applying for the study loand. Among the issues they told me was doing well in my Form Six examinations something that motivated me to invest a lot time in my studies. So, being denied the loan was a shock of my life, he says exhibiting some feelings.Edson says he travelled all the way from Iringa Region with Sh120,000 in his pocket and reported at the UDSM on October 8, this year as per instructions, registered himself before starting classes a week later.A few days later, names of students who had successfully secured study loans during 2016/17 academic year were released. However, this was withdrawn by authorities on grounds it contained errors and that the correct one would follow later.When names were released for the second time, he couldn t believe his eyes. His name was missing. What confused him the most was that another students from Iringa with more or less same qualifications was successful. I was totally confused. To me, the world was coming to an end. I thought of the expectations I had, the hard time I ve passed through, and efforts and those of my mother. I couldn t eat the whole day, he says.He had thought education would transform his family and improve their living standard once he was through his university education. All these dreams were coming to an end.However, he says, he is grateful that the media exposed his predicament. He thanks God that some Good Samaritans have come forth to try and rescue him from the situation. They are covering both his tuition fees and accommodation for the first two academic years.He named the Good Samaritans attracted after his news was posted on a blog and various media outlets the day HESLB executive director Abdul Badru was explaining to journalists on issues related to issuance of loans at Information Services Centre as Isaria Clothing specialised in sale of male and female clothes and Andrea Komba.However, Edson whose dreams have been to serve the country in the capacity of district executive director (DED) after being inspired by the then Mafinga district executive directors, yet faces challenges as assistance extended to him does not cover daily expenses, books and stationery items, field attachment and tuition fees for the third year.Edson, who has planned to challenge the HESLB decision to deny him study loans, advises the government to ensure students with requisite qualities were given loans to support their education.According to him, country s education system provides little skills and knowledge to enable secondary schools leavers to enable them get employment or employ themselves, suggesting that technical and vocational training should be emphasized.He supports the government crackdown on individuals fraudulently using funds allocated for students loans, suggesting that efforts to plug loopholes leading to leakages money should not hurt the students. The crackdown should be in line with ensuring justice to students from vulnerable families prevails. They should be prioritised as most of them depend on government investment in order to realize their dreams he said.He urged the government to work on collecting money dished out as study loans to former students so this would be injected back to support new students. After all, this is a loan. The only qualification should have been one s pass marks and one s proof of being a citizen of this country. These are enough, says Edson wearing a broad smile.