Another showdown could be looming between President Jacob Zuma and former public protector Thuli Madonsela. This time, the presidency told Madonsela to back off and said her unwarranted attacks on Zuma were unbecoming. However, pointed out constitutional law expert Pierre de Vos, it appeared the president s lawyers had not yet read section 7, subsection 2 of the Public Protector Act which specifically allows her to do so. The most telling aspect of the public protector s State of Capture report is the evident determination of some of those implicated in the report (including President Jacob Zuma) not to provide their side of the story to the public.&#8221; But those implicated will still have ample opportunity to provide their side of the story if the president complies with the public protector s remedial action to appoint an independent judicial commission of inquiry, De Vos wrote on his blog, Constitutionally Speaking. If the president challenges the report in court with a view to setting it aside, it will suggest that the president is not keen to refute the damning allegations against him. The public protector s State of Capture report contains damning facts often corroborated by other witnesses or objective evidence like cellphone records which directly implicate President Jacob Zuma in breaches of the Executive Members Ethics Act and the Prevention and Combatting of Corrupt Activities Act. LISTEN: Madonsela&#8217;s frustrating interview with Zuma In a statement, the presidency said Madonsela must step back and allow processes relating to the State of Capture report to unfold. Advocate Madonsela has discharged her duties as the public protector and has no further role to play in the process regarding the said report, Zuma s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, said yesterday. Her unwarranted public attacks on the president, as happened in Stellenbosch on Thursday, are unbecoming and are not helpful. At the centre of the dispute is the leaking of the audio of the interview between Zuma, his lawyer Michael Hulley and Madonsela. The presidency has lodged a complaint with the office of the public protector after eNCA published the interview on its website this week. Madonsela released the report after hearing that Zuma would file an application to interdict the release of the State of Capture report. Zuma had said he was not given adequate time to respond to the questions Madonsela wanted answered. Ngqulunga said this conduct has serious implications with regards to ethics, confidentiality and the protection of information gathered during investigations by the office of the public protector. It is also not clear why advocate Madonsela decided to leak only the audio recordings of the discussion with the president despite the fact she had interviewed several witnesses, he said. Zuma has urged all parties to act as guided by the constitution and respect the processes that are unfolding in respect of the State of Capture report. In the audio, Madonsela could be heard telling Zuma that he had had seven months notice to respond to her questions. We asked you, sir, in March to respond to the issues that are being raised, Madonsela says. There were seven months for us to receive a version from the president. Attempts to solicit comment from Madonsela drew a blank. The EFF leapt to Madonsela s defence, warning Zuma to stop using the name of the presidency to defend his personal interests and unethical conduct. It is impossible for anyone to speak about the State of Capture report without reflecting on how unethical and disreputable Zuma s conduct has been in terms of the executive code of ethics, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. However, above all, that Madonsela is the former public protector does not mean her freedom of expression and speech must be suspended or violated. She has the right to speak about the State of Capture report any way and anywhere she wants.&#8221; In fact, particularly now that she is no longer in that office, she ought to be considered fully as an ordinary citizen of this country who must, as all other citizens do, reflect on the work of the office of the public protector and Zuma himself. 