In a televised telephonic interview with eNCA early on Sunday afternoon, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has continued to insist that he believes it was indeed a car normally used to escort President Jacob Zuma that had hit a friend of his and killed him. The presidency had earlier said the Pretoria mayor s claim, which he first publicised in a tweet late on Saturday, is totally unfounded. Mashaba tweeted that: I have just received the terrible news that President Zuma s blue lights brigades killed a friend, Solly Moutlana, yesterday [Friday] . I have just received the terrible news that President Zuma&#39;s blue lights brigades killed a friend Solly Moutlana in Pretoria yesterday &mdash; Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) November 19, 2016 Mashaba told eNCA that he was at the Moutlana family home and they had confirmed the details to him that it was one of Zuma&#8217;s blue light vehicles that had killed Moutlana. He added that it had been tragic that Moutlana had not received the medical treatment required after the accident that may have saved his life. He said further investigations would reveal that his allegations were not unfounded. The presidency&#8217;s statement said: It is unfortunate that Mr Mashaba, if the tweet is indeed by him, seeks to create an impression that an SAPS [SA Police Service] convoy transporting the president caused this painful loss of life which is totally untrue and misleading, the presidency said. Zuma was in East London on Friday to participate in the National Council of Provinces Taking Parliament to the People event, having travelled from Cape Town. From East London he flew to KwaZulu-Natal. He left Pretoria on Tuesday. Mashaba said he was aware that Zuma had not been in Gauteng on Friday, and he was not involved, but he said it was still a member of Zuma&#8217;s convoy that was responsible for the killing of his friend. The presidency, on enquiry from African News Agency, had been informed that police were investigating a case involving a pedestrian knocked down by a car driven by a police officer in Pretoria. The pedestrian subsequently died. The SAPS would be better placed to provide clarity on the matter, it said. The presidency extends heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased on this tragic loss. The presidency remains ready to assist the mayor of Johannesburg in future with clarity on matters affecting the presidency to ensure the accuracy of information being disseminated, it said. Mashaba tweeted that: I have just received the terrible news that President Zuma s blue lights brigades killed a friend, Solly Moutlana, yesterday [Friday] . I have just received the terrible news that President Zuma&#39;s blue lights brigades killed a friend Solly Moutlana in Pretoria yesterday &mdash; Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) November 19, 2016 Mashaba told eNCA that he was at the Moutlana family home and they had confirmed the details to him that it was one of Zuma&#8217;s blue light vehicles that had killed Moutlana. He added that it had been tragic that Moutlana had not received the medical treatment required after the accident that may have saved his life. He said further investigations would reveal that his allegations were not unfounded. The presidency&#8217;s statement said: It is unfortunate that Mr Mashaba, if the tweet is indeed by him, seeks to create an impression that an SAPS [SA Police Service] convoy transporting the president caused this painful loss of life which is totally untrue and misleading, the presidency said. Zuma was in East London on Friday to participate in the National Council of Provinces Taking Parliament to the People event, having travelled from Cape Town. From East London he flew to KwaZulu-Natal. He left Pretoria on Tuesday. Mashaba said he was aware that Zuma had not been in Gauteng on Friday, and he was not involved, but he said it was still a member of Zuma&#8217;s convoy that was responsible for the killing of his friend. The presidency, on enquiry from African News Agency, had been informed that police were investigating a case involving a pedestrian knocked down by a car driven by a police officer in Pretoria. The pedestrian subsequently died. The SAPS would be better placed to provide clarity on the matter, it said. The presidency extends heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased on this tragic loss. The presidency remains ready to assist the mayor of Johannesburg in future with clarity on matters affecting the presidency to ensure the accuracy of information being disseminated, it said.