Fiolina continues to mesmerise me. Apart from being the voice of reason that steers me back to the straight and narrow path whenever I stray, she has also been a good and wise wife at home: cooking, washing and keeping our house clean.That is why during her birthday in March, I mesmerised her with great gifts. I bought her two new handkerchiefs and new slippers. In revenge, she has continued to be a great wife while I have become the envy of all men. Fiolina did something else:she brought me breakfast in the bedroom: strong tea and fried eggs. She then smiled at me before leaving for school. I arrived to find an envelope on the table addressed to me. I opened it and found a note from the laugh of my life. It read:My deer hurby, Happy Bathday. My massage to you today is that you are a great man who has principals. I wish you success and good lack this year. May you stay young at hut and may you leave to blow up a thousand candles. Happy Bathday my laugh.I had forgotten that it was my birthday. In Mwisho wa Lami, where I was born and will be buried, birthdays mean nothing; and that is why I have never done anything on this day.I was really touched when I read this and was happy to have Fiolina in my life. It was the first time I had ever received a birthday message. I am quite sure I was the first man in Mwisho wa Lami to receive one.It was around 2 pm when I arrived home and Fiolina was not around. Being tired, I decided to take an afternoon nap as I waited for her.When Fiolina arrived, she was carrying a green paper bag, the one with the 2016 calendar that we have been re-using since May. Hi sweetie, she greeted me and moved to hug me. I did not know how to answer and also did not know how to hug her back. Deep inside I wondered who had been teaching her such new things. Could it be Kwame?I found that the table had been laid but the contents were covered with a leso. It s your birthday, please open, said Fiolina. I lifted the leso and was pleasantly surprised to find a jug of juice and three scones. In case you did not know, the way to my heart is always through juice. Wow, I exclaimed, as I could not believe that the entire jug of juice was mine and mine alone. She poured some of the juice in a glass and I started drinking it while munching the scones. I knew you will like it, she said, smiling. After my third glass she went to the bedroom and emerged hiding something behind her back. Close your eyes, she ordered, and I obeyed. She then placed something in my hands. I opened my eyes to find a gift wrapped in old newspapers. Open it, she said. I unwrapped it slowly so as not to damage it. I was happy when I saw the contents: a green vest made from netting, and red socks. To say I was happy would be an understatement. I was thrilled.As you know, all my T-shirts were torn and having missed out on the IEBC T-shirts during the elections, I did not have something presentable to wear inside my green Kaunda suits. The new green vest would match with my suits very well. Thank you so much, I said. She then walked to the bedroom as I drank the fourth glass of juice. Immediately, I received two SMSes. The first one informed me that I had received Sh90 airtime while the next was from Fiolina. It read: The credit note is from me. Happy Bathday Sweethut!I was lost for words. Clearly he who finds a wife finds a good thing; but he who found Fiolina found a better thing! I can t wait for my next birthday!