Less than a week before their Test series against Sri Lanka starts, the South African cricket team still don t know if they might need to do so with a new captain. By Monday evening there was still no official word from the International Cricket Council (ICC) on Faf du Plessis appeal against ball-tampering as Michael Beloff, the judicial officer, carefully deliberates on what has become a thorny saga. The world governing body merely said judgement had been reserved and that a ruling would be made in due course . Also read: Who will be Faf du Plessis&#8217; Proteas deputy? Du Plessis was fined 100% of his match fee, as well as three demerit points after being found guilty of artificially altering the ball during the second Test against Australia in Hobart last month. Yet the Proteas skipper, assisted by Cricket South Africa (CSA), had no hesitation in deciding to appeal. To withdraw the appeal seems like the logical thing to do, said Du Plessis during a media event in Cape Town last week. I didn t agree with the way the whole thing was handled, and how it happened and unfolded. Even the hearing that took place, how everything works when it comes to those hearings. For me, it s the principle of standing up for something which you don t agree with. That, however, is a calculated risk. The International Cricket Council (ICC) has previously stated their judicial commissioner has the power to impose a heavier penalty on Du Plessis if his appeal fails. That would entail him missing the first Test starting in Port Elizabeth on 26 December. As a result, South Africa would need to nominate a stand-in captain, thought to be Hashim Amla. The whole saga has also led to simmering tension between CSA and the ICC. Dave Richardson, former Proteas wicketkeeper and chief executive of the world governing body, publicly expressed his disappointment at Du Plessis appeal. At the weekend, he also criticised CSA for not standing up to their Australian, English and Indian counterparts during 2014 s controversial structural reforms at the ICC. CSA duly launched a stiff retort. If he is indeed correctly quoted, his remarks come as a complete shock to us, said CSA CEO Haroon Lorgat. For someone who was actually party to the 2014 resolutions to now make such a disparaging remark to CSA is frankly nonsense and insulting to us. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.