With almost 7 million people who are working but struggling to earn a living, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa told parliament on Wednesday that the days of wage poverty had to come to an end. Currently, about 47% of workers earn less than R3,500 a month. The lowest paid workers who earn a minimum wage of R1036 a month are also in dire straits. Ramaphosa said that after much deliberation it had been unanimously agreed to that minimum wage had to go up to R20 an hour; meaning employees, at starting level, would get a pay cheque of R3,500 and above. This will make a big difference in their lives. It will assist in reducing poverty and go some way to reducing income inequality, he said. However the deputy president was cognisant of the reality that increased prices might lead to job losses as employers in the farming and hospitality industry may not be able to afford it. It was a balancing act and social society parties in the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) were still banging their heads around to find equilibrium. ALSO READ: SABC delegation walks out of Parly inquiry Once agreement has been reached on the level at which the minimum wage will be set, it will cover all employees regardless of their nationality. &#8220;Employers who do not comply whether their employees are South Africans or foreign nationals will face penalties. The national minimum wage is not a recommended wage. It is a floor below which no employee may be paid, he said. However, Ramaphosa did give a sparkle of hope to employers who simply were unable to afford the increases, adding that exemptions would be made for those who applied for leniency. He said the panel had so far proposed that own-account workers and paid or unpaid family workers in informal enterprises were permanently excluded from the national minimum wage. The report also recommended that employers who employ 10 or less employees be given an additional 12 months to adjust to the new level. The suggested minimum wage however is only due, if it gets the go-ahead to come into practice in 2019. The real matter here is it something we are prepared to countenance or are we saying that we want to lift the livelihoods of our people. It s aimed at lifting [people] we should embrace that. It s a very, very radical measure that is going to add a better livelihood for our people, Ramaphosa said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.