The good ship South Africa rode out 2016 by staying in port. Her master, Jacob Zuma, distracted by the bailiffs pounding at his cabin door, simply failed to embark on the challenging journey that had been mapped out. But the ANC is not perturbed. Zuma will be allowed to remain unchallenged, at least until the leadership conference in December 2017. Zuma, meanwhile, is focusing on the only thing that matters to him self-preservation. Consequently, nothing much else gets done. Legislation is piling up, unsigned by Zuma and, therefore, unimplemented. One of the most important is the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Bill, which makes SA compliant with international efforts to combat money laundering and terrorism financing. This languished in his in-tray for five months before he sent it back to parliament, citing concerns over its constitutionality . It is touching that the president, who has been declared by the Constitutional Court to have violated his oath of office, is now suddenly concerned about the Bill s impermissibly overly broad provisions for the invasion of the inner sanctum of people s privacy. However, the timing means that the Bill will not be passed before the February deadline, threatening the international operations of the hitherto highly regarded SA financial system. As Zuma, over the past year, has drawn more into himself, it is such failures to act rather than the moves he actually has made that give the better clue to the rotting state of his presidency. Take the SABC, which has been an unending circus, with an illegally appointed chief operating officer who faked his matric certificate as the principal clown. The man has destroyed its journalistic credibility, bullied its staff, improperly awarded himself millions in bonuses and sold its archives to a rival broadcaster. And the minister of communications, the utterly useless Faith Muthambi, has presided over this mess and, on the face of the evidence before the parliamentary inquiry, colluded in it. But she still has her job. There is also the memorable incident of Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, who issued a statement falsely claiming that Cabinet had agreed to an inquiry into the major banks decision to break ties with the Gupta family. In any other country, to lie on this scale would incur an instant dismissal, but Zwane escaped with an unspecified reprimand . Of course, it is not surprising that a president who is fighting for his political survival will do everything possible to placate those who might turn on him. Less easy to explain is his failure to act against his foes outside the ANC, specifically EFF leader Julius Malema. Earlier this year, Malema taunted the presidency with the outrageous claim that Zuma had packed R6 billion in suitcases and flown with the money to Dubai for the Guptas, because when Zuma travels he doesn t get searched by customs . This, unless true, is clearly defamatory. In the past, both parties have been quick to seek redress in the courts. The presidency did issue a statement threatening legal action over the malicious allegations . But that was in April. Malema has not withdrawn his claim, nor apologised, but the most litigious president in our history still hasn t served a writ. Now why would that be? It s the most baffling conundrum of 2016. Or not? William Saunderson-Meyer For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.