I ve reached the stage where travelling is not just a passing phase. It isn t a sabbatical of sorts and I m far too old for a gap year. This is my life and very much how I lead it. Now I know it can seem a bit strange to people who are striving to grow their assets and start families, but, to me, travelling is a career of sorts. Being that as it is, I feel that because this is what I do that I am constantly walking on a tightrope. The rope where I risk venturing into the area of sounding smug or like a travel snob. Sometimes I ll see friends or acquaintances going abroad for the first time or to a place that I ve visited and inside I get really excited for them. At the same time I want to tell them of all the things I loved about a certain place and give them my traveller s insider knowledge. The thing is, do I then sound smug? When I make a suggestion am I passing on the good stuff or just coming across as a know-it-all? I sometimes can t stop myself and pass a comment and I can just envision multiple rolling eye emojis going off in people s heads. I ve lost count of the amount of times I ve posted a picture of someplace exotic and sure the likes roll in and the comments of stop it and so jealous do, too. It s affected me so much to the point where I rarely post anything. In my mind I m sharing the experience with friends and family back home but I guess when you are sitting in that cubicle it can be misconstrued. It can seem I m being full of it. I really am not. Pictures really are moments in time. Yes I m on that camel but you didn t see me writhing in pain because it s so uncomfortable to ride one. There s a picture of me in front of the Taj Mahal but I bared hours of brain numbing travel to get there. My meal is Instagram-worthy but you don t see the various other god-awful meals that I ve had to endure. My life looks charmed but I work just like you and hate my job sometimes or hate where I am and worry about finances and all those other things just like you do. I m just doing it in a different location, where things get lost in translation sometimes. So when I pass a comment or post a picture it never is intended as me or any other traveller being a know-it-all. Being a gypsy is not always glamorous and we want to make your visit to a place we ve been to before extra awesome. Just like you would ask your doctor friend for medical advice or your friend in finance to help you crunch numbers, we see ourselves doing the same thing. I m excited to see my fellow South Africans travel and I want to be part of their exciting stories and share in them. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.