When two elephants fight against each other, the grass always suffers, said Yu-Fang Lin of the National Policy Foundation a Taiwan-based think tank in an interview with the Washington Times. He was talking about the famous phone call between Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen and Donald Trump on December 2. If the US and China get into a military confrontation, Lin suggested, it is Taiwan that will be crushed. ALSO READ: &#8216;Unpresidented&#8217; Trump tweet on China sets off deluge of mockery The Chinese Communist regime was outraged by that phone call, the first direct conversation between an official of the Taiwan government and an American president or president-elect in almost four decades, but it kept its fury in check. Beijing made an official complaint to Washington, but China s foreign minister, Wang Yi, dismissed the call as a petty trick by Taiwan. The Chinese leaders, as puzzled as everyone else by the Trump phenomenon, were soft-pedaling the issue and hoping the president-elect wasn t looking for a fight. The alternative was just too frightening to contemplate. Lin called it the madman strategy: Trump making himself appear to be very dangerous and hostile and very unpredictable to scare the [Chinese] leaders into concessions on various issues. I don t see why we have to be bound by a One China policy unless we make a deal with China having to do with other things, including trade, Trump said in an interview on Fox News last Sunday. But if Trump plays the madman card, then China will not negotiate anything. And if he Monday 10 19 December 2016 urges Taiwan along the road to formal independence, then as the Global Times put it China may have to consider arming the US enemies or taking back Taiwan by force. The One China policy dates back to 1979, when the US broke its formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan and transferred them to the People s Republic of China. It was an agreeable fiction that allowed Washington to have its cake and eat it too. In terms of trade and military strategy, it was more important for Washington to have diplomatic ties with China (population of 1.3 billion) than Taiwan (22 million). But it was politically impossible for the US to abandon the Taiwan regime, which it had backed in the Chinese civil war and supported after that regime lost and retreated to the island of Taiwan in 1949. And so the One China policy was born. Everyone agreed China could not be divided, but Taiwan could keep its de facto independence, so long as it accepted that China must one day be reunited. The US would break diplomatic relations with Taiwan, but could go on trading with it and even selling it arms. And everybody lived happily ever after, more or less. China bent backwards to get this deal because it was a poor country trying to open up trade with the West, and was mired in a military confrontation with the Soviet Union. That confrontation is long over and China is no longer poor, but it has meticulously observed the terms of the deal for 37 years. Now Trump is threatening to cancel the deal if he cannot get better terms from Beijing. If he pursues his madman strategy, we are all in for a rough time. Gwynne Dyer More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.