One of domestic cricket&#8217;s most destructive batters might have a realistic chance of making his Test debut just after Christmas against Sri Lanka. Theunis de Bruyn, the lanky Knights captain, on Wednesday was named as the only new cap in the Proteas squad for the series of three Tests. He owes his inclusion to some solid showings in his first full campaign with the central franchise, as well as the continued injury woes of AB de Villiers and Rilee Rossouw. And if captain Faf du Plessis&#8217; appeal against ball-tampering turns sour next week, De Bruyn might have to be pressed into service. Also read: Faf du Plessis lollygate appeal could become a problem Franchise cricket currently isn&#8217;t overflowing with top-order batsmen scoring mountains of runs but De Bruyn has been one of the glittering exceptions. &#8220;Theunis is the latest player to be rewarded for consistently good form at franchise and South Africa A level, said Linda Zondi, the national side&#8217;s selection convenor. &#8220;He has an outstanding first-class career average of 48.73 (6 centuries) and has made 423 runs at 60.42 in this season s Sunfoil Series four-day competition.&#8221; Wayne Parnell, whose batting ability is a bonus, was also an attractive option to replace Morne Morkel. The experienced fast bowler continues to struggle for match fitness and his international career is now shrouded in doubt. Zondi also praised AB de Villiers&#8217; selflessness in handing over the full-time captaincy to Faf du Plessis. Also read: Boeta: There&#8217;s doubt if AB is happy Credit to AB for the smooth way the leadership transition has taken place. We certainly look forward to having him back for the limited overs portion of the tour. Faf has done an outstanding job in the last two Test series and our leadership is in very good hands, he said. Proteas Test squad: Faf du Plessis, Kyle Abbott, Hashim Amla, Temba Bavuma, Stephen Cook, Theunis de Bruyn, Quinton de Kock, JP Duminy, Dean Elgar, Keshav Maharaj, Wayne Parnell, Vernon Philander, Kagiso Rabada. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.