Did it cross your mind in the past week to wonder where the 250 000 civilians trapped in eastern Aleppo have gone? As the area of the city under rebel control dwindled by Wednesday morning the Syrian regime s troops had recaptured three-quarters of it did you see massive columns of fleeing civilians, or mounds of civilian dead? If hundreds of thousands or even just tens of thousands of civilians were fleeing for safety into government-held territory, you would expect the regime s propagandists to make striking images available. Look! they would say. The civilians really loved President Bashar al-Assad all along. Or maybe the civilians are all dead. Stephen O Brien, the UN s deputy secretary-general for humanitarian affairs, warned a week ago that if Assad s forces went on advancing, then the besieged parts of eastern Aleppo would become one giant graveyard . So, where are those quarter-million bodies? Here s a thought: have those people suddenly become invisible because they were never really there in the first place? All the reporting out of eastern Aleppo for the past three months has been what the rebel groups wanted us to see, nothing else. And to them, the presence of large numbers of defenceless civilians , the more the better, was their best protection against a full-scale onslaught by the regime. For months, what was obviously rebel propaganda has been shown by the world s media as if it were the impartial truth. Was it just laziness, or subservience to a political agenda set by the West and its allies in the Middle East? A bit of both, probably. ALSO READ: Liberal values being crushed by populist power grabs The US, Saudi Arabia and Turkey were all determined to see the overthrow of Assad s regime, even if it did take six years of civil war. And even though they didn t agree on what they wanted to replace it with. Washington pursued the dream of a democratic, secular Syria. Riyadh and Ankara wanted a decisive victory by the Sunni Arab majority about 60% to 65% of the population and an authoritarian Islamic state. But they all agreed on the need to overthrow Assad. Syrians, from the start, were much more ambivalent. Few loved the Assad regime, which was repressive and brutal. But many including most Sunni Muslims, especially in the cities saw the regime as their only protection against the triumph of an even nastier Islamist dictatorship. There was never a mass uprising in Aleppo against the regime. Various rebel groups from the Sunni rural areas around Aleppo stormed the city in 2012 and won control over the eastern half, but it was never clear that the local residents were glad to see them. On the other hand, it was not a good idea to look too unhappy about it, so over the next four years a great many people left the rebel-held part of the city. And it would appear that when the Syrian army retook most of eastern Aleppo last week, most of those people just stayed in their homes and waited to be liberated . Some of them will be terrified of being arrested and tortured, especially if they collaborated with the rebels, even under duress. Others will simply be relieved that it s over. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.