Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has wished South Africans a merry Christmas, saying the country continues to draw inspiration from the values and objectives of the Constitution which was signed on December 10, 1996. During this month, we also mark three years of the passing of our global icon [former president] Nelson Mandela, the father of our democracy, he said in his Christmas message on Saturday. As we celebrate the legacy of Madiba, we rededicate ourselves to the ideals of building a non-racial, non-sexist, and a democratic society in which all our people, black and white, can live in peace and harmony. On this occasion, we remind ourselves that the adoption of the Constitution was the culmination of decades of struggles waged by our people at home and abroad. As we celebrate these achievements, we honour those who made huge sacrifices in the struggle for peace, freedom, and democracy, Ramaphosa said. We also honour those who work to build and develop our country. As we mark this milestone, we rededicate ourselves to the core values of our Constitution. In the two decades since the Constitution was adopted we have worked together to give effect to the rights and freedoms it proclaims. Working together, we have lifted millions of people out of poverty and provided houses, electricity, water and sanitation to millions of households. We have built, equipped, and staffed new hospitals, clinics, schools, and colleges. For much of the last 20 years, we have had a growing economy that, together with our trans-formative policies, has provided many opportunities to our people. As a nation, we are hard at work to develop our people through education and training, to improve their lives through quality health care and social support, and to grow our economy by expanding our productive capacity. Through joint efforts of government, business, and labour we are hard at work to increase investment opportunities, support medium and small enterprise development, address youth unemployment, and maintain South Africa s investment grade status. The introduction of a national minimum wage will go a long way in reducing wage inequality and poverty. It is a matter of grave concern to us that more than 50 percent of our employed South Africans earn below R20 per hour. We are grateful for the efforts made by leaders of labour, business, and communities to develop a common approach to these critical issues facing our country. All social partners are agreed that R20 per hour is not a living wage. Social partners consider it as a starting point to begin the process of reducing wage inequality. Ramaphosa said a major concern remained the high number of fatalities during the holiday season on the roads. We therefore call on all road users and pedestrians to obey the rules of the road, don t drink and drive, and please Arrive Alive! Let us work together with our law enforcement agencies to ensure we are all safe during this festive season. We wish you all a Merry Christmas as well as and joyous festivities with your family and friends, he said. African News Agency (ANA)