Police have clamped down on two alleged rapists who targeted women in Mooiplaas informal settlement in Pretoria this week, raping them in their homes. A woman was raped by her ex-boyfriend in the early hours of Tuesday morning after he charged into her home, police spokesperson Constable Tumisang Moloto said. The woman was sleeping when she heard a knock on the door. Upon opening it, her boyfriend barged in, and an argument ensued. The victim was allegedly accused of having affairs, and the suspect then raped her and fell asleep, he said. While sleeping, his victim contacted the police, and the man was arrested. In a separate incident, another man was arrested in Mooiplaas on Monday when he forced a woman into her home and raped her. Moloto said the woman was sitting outside her shack on Monday night when an armed man approached her. ALSO READ: Signage falls on Nelspruit shopper The unknown man threatened her with a knife and took her inside the shack where he raped her before fleeing the scene. Police followed up on information of his whereabouts, and the suspect was arrested. While the country recently concluded the 16 days of activism against women and child abuse, Gauteng police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said such cases were expected to increase due to festive season activities such as alcohol abuse. He said 504 people were arrested in November for domestic violence and sexual assault, with more than half being charged with the latter. These included acts or rape, exposing children to child pornography, abduction, sexual grooming of mentally disabled people and enticing to engage in sexual activity. A Nigerian national was to appear at the Pretoria Magistrates&#8217; Court today on charges of kidnapping, human trafficking and rape when he allegedly abducted a Mamelodi 12-year-old girl in September. The 36-year-old man allegedly held her captive in his Sunnyside flat, where he repeatedly raped her and attempted to groom her into prostitution until her escape early this month. More than 100 Mamelodi men have shown unity against the incident by signing a petition, calling on the state to deny the perpetrator bail. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.