Former Cosatu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi has accused President Jacob Zuma of behaving like a gangster when he allegedly plotted with the State Security Agency agents to establish a bogus union to spy on and destabilise the militant Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) in the North West platinum belt. The Workers Association Union (WAU) was set up with the direct support of the State Security Agency (SSA) ostensibly to spy and undermine Amcu, whose members were on strike demanding a R12 500 wage increase from Lonmin Platinum company. In papers filed in the North Gauteng High Court, one of the union leaders, Thebe Maswabi, said a SSA agent facilitated the first meeting and others that followed between him and other would-be members of the union and Zuma in September 2013 at the Union Buildings. Maswabi alleged he was paid by the SSA agents, who were instructed by Zuma to provide him with money and vehicles in order to establish the WAU, but that the payments later stopped, leaving him in debt. Maswabi is now suing Zuma and some of his cabinet ministers, including state security Minister David Mahlobo to the tune of R114 million for debt incurred after they abandoned and failed to fund the union activities as promised. READ MORE: Nhleko named in R114m fake union lawsuit In an article he penned for Biznews.com, Vavi said the fact that Zuma actively conspired with Secret Service to establish a rival trade union to AMCU &#8220;should be seen as the last straw&#8221;. He said that WAU was established after the Marikana massacre and before the Farlam commission is nothing short of an attempt to stir up warfare within the workers movement. &#8220;Frankly, if this is true, we have a President who has not just lost the plot, but who has been busy trying to create them,&#8221; Vavi said. He described the union leaders as &#8220;trade union mercenaries&#8221;. According to Vavi, by wilfully plotting and then implementing moves deliberately designed to create division among workers, Zuma undermined his oath of office, labour law and international conventions. Amcu president, Joseph Mathunjwa lambasted Zuma and his Cabinet for targeting the union for destabilisation. Mathunjwa said Maswabi&#8217;s lawsuit Zuma and others has revealed this state hostility towards Amcu and the state spying on the union is a &#8220;flagrant violation of the democratic rights enshrined in the Constitution&#8221;. &#8220;Of course President Zuma would not think of deploying the Hawks and other security agencies to focus on mine management and their shareholders who, through their recklessness and mismanagement of their operations and the economy, pose the real threat to security in this country,&#8221;Mathunjwa said. Since Sunday, attempts to get comment from the Presidency spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga were fruitless. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.