Civil society activists, along with district leaders of the South African Communist Party (SACP), on Wednesday picketed outside the Blue Downs Magistrate s Court in the Western Cape. They were calling for the bail application of the man accused of killing lesbian Noluvo Swelindawo to be denied. The accused, Signice Mdani, 24, from Driftsands in Khayelitsha, allegedly targeted the 22-year-old from the same area on the basis of her sexual orientation. The victim s body was found at a footbridge along the N2 highway early this month with a single gunshot wound. Mdani was arrested a few days after Swelindawo s killing and charged with murder, intent to assault, kidnapping and housebreaking. After a brief delay to court proceedings on Wednesday, when Mdani was unsure whether to proceed with the bail application, the magistrate decided to briefly postpone the matter for him to consult his lawyer. READ MORE: LGBT activist Noluvo Swelindawo killed in alleged hate crime The accused s lawyer then returned to court to announce that Mdani had decided to abandon his bail bid. Meanwhile, the protest outside court calling for the accused to be denied bail was staged by members of the SACP, the Social Justice Coalition and the Triangle Project, of which Swelindawo was a member. SACP district secretary Benson Ngqentsu said the demonstration was very sucessful . He said they had triumphantly submitted a petition signed by residents from Swelindawo s community to the prosecutor. The SACP welcomes the fact that the accused and his lawyer withdrew their bail application, Ngqentsu said. This is the first advance in our struggle for justice in Noluvo Swelindawo s murder. Ngqentsu said the community would not rest in its bid to ensure Mdani was handed the harshest sentence if convicted. He also called on police to expedite their investigation and arrest the remaining suspects in the case. Ngqentsu also challenged Deputy Police Minister Maggie Sotyu s assertion that Swelindawo s murder was not related to her gender orientation. It s not wise to speculate on the contents of the case, as only court is tasked to decide on the motive for the killing, Ngqentsu said. But what s important is that the law must take its course. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.