Society needs to ensure that girls have the same access to education afforded to boys, as this will make them and their children less likely to die during or after giving birth , KwaZulu-Natal health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said on Sunday. We must educate women. There is an international indicator a guarantee that when women have access to information they are unlikely to have challenges that may result in maternal mortality, Dhlomo said at Stanger Hospital, north of Durban, on Sunday morning as he announced that 56 Christmas Day babies 33 boys and 23 girls had been born throughout the province by 7am. But uneducated mothers, on the other hand, cannot prioritise maternal care and are at high risk of dying during or after childbirth. This is because due to socio-economic pressures they do not even have time to prioritise antenatal care. They have other pressures, and information that can help them in terms of preventing maternal and child deaths does not become easily accessible, he said. As of midday, the number of Christmas Day babies born in KwaZulu-Natal had risen to 64 36 boys and 28 girls. Accompanied by KwaZulu-Natal health department head Sifiso Mtshali, Dhlomo handed out gifts and offered encouragement and advice to two new mothers Simangele Makhoba and Nompumelelo Mbokazi who delivered their Christmas babies at Stanger Hospital. The occasion was also used to celebrate the huge strides made by Stanger Hospital in reducing the maternal mortality rate, from 16 in 2013/14; to 13 in 2014/15; to eight in 2015/16, and just four maternal deaths since April 2016. The hospital delivers on average 7200 babies each year. Hospital CEO Thamela Ngcobo, who was herself born at Stanger Hospital, said the reduction could be attributed to, among others: Strengthening community outreach programs, including Operation Sukuma Sakhe Wednesdays; Training health care workers in resuscitation skills, anesthetics, and essential steps in the management of obstetric emergencies; and Effective engagements at the regular perinatal and maternal mortality meetings. However, Dhlomo decried the fact that two of the mothers of the Christmas Day babies were aged 16. He said teenage mothers, by sheer virtue of their age, were neither physiologically nor psychologically ready to bear children. This often led to serious health complications which could result in the death of the mother, her baby, or both. We are always concerned when young people fall pregnant at a young age because it is very unsafe. If you re a young person under the age of 18, and you re delivering a big baby, which does happen, chances of delivering safely are slim. It actually places the mother s own life and the baby s in danger. Dhlomo called on young people to either abstain from sex or use dual protection, a combination of condoms and female contraceptive methods, to avoid unplanned or unwanted pregnancies. He urged health care workers to ensure that young people felt welcome to seek assistance from public health care facilities. Health workers need to understand that if the youth is not treated in a manner that makes them feel welcome to seek health services, they then rely on uninformed advice or the help of their peers usually with disastrous consequences. We do not want that. Dhlomo also emphasised the need for all mothers to follow the immunisation schedule as set out in the Road to Health chart that all new mothers received from public health facilities. It s very important for babies to be immunised, as this gives them protection against many diseases. We must not only celebrate the arrival of these babies, but also ensure that they are nurtured and protected, he said.