Sipho Pityana, ANC stalwart and chairperson of AngloGold Ashanti, has expressed shock at news that President Jacob Zuma s close friend Atul Gupta is the seventh-richest businessperson in South Africa. ALSO READ: Atul Gupta is SA s richest black businessman The Sunday Times reported yesterday that the 47-year-old Gupta, the most prominent of three brothers from the family who have been accused of using their relationship with Zuma to unfairly enrich themselves, has personal wealth valued at R10 billion. Pityana, who used the funeral of former sport minister Makhenkesi Stofile in August to call on Zuma to step down, said yesterday that for one man to have acquired so much wealth so fast was disturbing. But when it is Atul Gupta, a man whose every business activity is being questioned because of corruption, money laundering and his penchant for peddling posts in public office, we really have to say there is something fundamentally wrong here and it needs a full and proper investigation, Pityana said. We can only imagine what other earnings are stashed away or have left the country in suitcases, in addition to Atul Gupta s listed assets. If South Africa ever needed full transparency on the Guptas net worth and how they acquired it, we need it now. ALSO READ: Nearly 80% of the richest 200 in SA are white men Pityana reiterated his long-running call that Zuma must go. It is clear that under Zuma s watch, black ownership of the economy is shrinking and the entire black economic empowerment project has regressed, he said. It is yet another of Zuma s dismal failures and he must stop trying to fool South Africans into thinking he has anything else at heart than his own enrichment and the enrichment of his cronies. Pityana said Zuma had a huge amount to answer for. As was clearly shown in the recent public protector s report, State of Capture, Zuma not only stands at the centre of the Guptas economic empire, he actively facilitates it, Pityana, convener of the Save South Africa campaign, said. news@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.