The Democratic Republic of Congo s (DRC) political crisis must be resolved by Christmas mediators have urged, as clashes between civilians and security forces over President Joseph Kabila s refusal to step down despite his mandate ending on Tuesday led to the death of at least 26 civilians and the arrest of hundreds more. Enough is enough, said Monseigneur Marcel Utembi with the team of Catholic Church mediators. A solution must be found as soon as possible by all political actors, but in particular by the government in order to reassure the Congolese people, ABC reported Utembi saying. He conveyed a message from Pope Francis after their meeting this week: I am concerned by what is happening in your country, which I wish to visit at the opportune moment. I pray for the Congolese people, who need peace so much now . Meanwhile, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on Wednesday he was keeping a close eye on the situation as the mediation led by the Conf rence piscopale nationale des glises du Congo (CENCO) resumed. Calling on Congolese political leaders to place the interests of the country and its people above partisan considerations, the Secretary-General said it was important to eliminate tensions and create a safe environment for the completion of the CENCO-facilitated dialogue, followed by timely, credible and transparent elections. The Secretary-General deplores the reported loss of life in confrontations between the security forces and protesters, including in Kinshasa, a UN statement said, stressing the need for the national security forces to exercise the utmost restraint in the maintenance of public order. The UN chief also called on the DRC authorities to investigate any acts of violence and ensure the perpetrators are held accountable. In addition, Ki-moon encouraged the new government led by Prime Minister Samy Badibanga to take concrete steps, in line with the October 18 political agreement. He also urged all parties involved to exercise maximum restraint in their actions and statements, and discourage the use of violence among their supporters.