Zimbabwe s 1980 freedom has not benefited the poor but the elite and strugglepreneurs that care only for their own political and economic survival. This was the view of Future Msebebe-Zulu, deputy secretary for international relations for Zapu (Zimbabwe African People s Union) during an interview with The Citizen in Johannesburg. Zapu was the revolutionary party led by the later guerrilla leader Joshua Nkomo during the Zimbabwean black liberation struggle against the white rule of Ian Smith. Msebebe-Zulu, who insisted that Zapu is the only authentic liberation party in Zimbabwe not the Zanu-PF led by Robert Mugabe, said Zanu talks communism but practised capitalism. He said most government ministers in Zimbabwe have a several farms while the peasants a living in the margins and struggling daily for economic survival. The land re-distribution in Zimbabwe has benefited only the political elite while the ordinary people are left out. There are struggle-preneurs or those who are comrades who benefited from the struggle outcomes at the expense of the poor. They speak our language as comrades but their objective is material benefits. Msebebe-Zulu, who also spoke on behalf of Zapu at the memorial service of the later Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro organised by the SACP and Friends of Cuba Society in Johannesburg on Sunday, praised Castro for having supported the Zapu s military wing, the Zimbabwe Peoples Revolutionary Army. He said Castro supported Zapu and Zipra without looking at gain for his country. He cited the fact that after independence in Zimbabwe, Cuba did not send companies to benefit from the mines in Zimbabwe. Castro helped us but did not get anything. There are no Cuban companies mining in Zimbabwe but only capitalists. Castro did not only support us from the perspective of military training but also in decolonisation. Children in Zimbabwe were given scholarships to go and study in Cuba and there were Cuban doctors that were deployed to work in Zimbabwe, Msebebe-Zulu said. He challenged the SACP to take a stand on the chaotic situation in Zimbabwe. Because of the political chaos under Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe in 2018 we advocate for a Coalition of the opposition parties to fight for the poor and do away with &#8220;strugglepreneurship&#8221; that he said were a hindrance. The struggle has been hijacked by Zanu-PF and the struggle-preneurs, Msebebe-Zulu said. He said although Zapu merged with Zanu to form Zanu-PF, it was not a genuine unity but the move was done to save Zimbabwean people in Matabeleland who were being massacred by Zanu-PF, which killed 20 000 people in the early 1980s under the state-sponsored Operation Gukurahundi. -ericn@citizen.co.za