Malusi Siboto had probably been hoping the ground could swallow him whole when he dropped a sitter of a catch in the 12th over of the domestic T20 final at SuperSport Park on Friday night. Yet by the end of the match he was rushing off the field to embrace his gran, who was watching him play cricket for the first time. It was a good first experience as she was able to see the 29-year-old deliver a superb final over to seal a thrilling six-run victory for the Titans over the Warriors. Also read: Ball beats bat as Titans defend their T20 crown In a gripping, low-scoring encounter, the Titans were defending just 156 and at one stage the visitors were cruising at 91/3. That was when Colin Ackermann, on 21, looped a sweep off wrist-spinner Tabraiz Shamsi to short fine leg and Siboto, whose nickname is Lolly, dropped a dolly. Even though Jonker was out next ball for 33 off 25 balls, foolishly sweeping Shamsi to fine leg, Ackermann batted on and scored 34. He and Qaasim Adams, trapped lbw for 17 by Shamsi, missing a sweep, were dismissed in successive overs in the midst of a superb Titans comeback. A magnificent penultimate over from Junior Dala cost just six runs, but it still left Siboto with only 11 runs to play with in the final over. The former Knights seamer, enjoying his first season with the Titans, was brilliant, going full and straight and hitting the blockhole as he conceded just four singles and a wide. &#8220;I dropped the wrong guy and in my mind I knew I should have taken that catch. So I told myself that when I bowl again I must make up for it and I guess I did,&#8221; Siboto said afterwards. &#8220;I was overwhelmed and just froze when I bowled the wide, but I knew I just had to try and make things right. Afterwards I ran off the field to my gran, who was watching me play cricket for the first time.&#8221; For Titans coach Mark Boucher, the win, for his debut trophy in his first season in charge, was made even more special because the Warriors had been in charge. &#8220;It had been a bit frustrating because we put ourselves under pressure, but it became a tight match anyway and we held our nerve. It wasn t the perfect game from us, we didn t score enough runs, but we played pressure cricket and finals are often about who holds their bottle longest. &#8220;I m very proud of the guys because it was a dogfight, it wasn t pretty. The Warriors had picked up momentum, but Junior Dala (4-0-25-0) hit his straps really well and pulled that momentum back, showing good pace and aggression. He handled the pressure very well he even said to me that he doesn t feel pressure! and then Malusi, geez, he came good! &#8220;He hadn t had a great night, his first over went for 10 and then he dropped that catch, and other players might have gone into their shell and faded away, but he took the bull by the horns and got the ball in the right areas. &#8220;You can t train that sort of thing, you can practise skills and talk about tactics all day long, but the player has got to want those tough moments,&#8221; Boucher said. The Titans mentor added his side&#8217;s struggles were down to them misreading the pitch. We got the wicket wrong and went too hard, too early; 160 was about par but scoreboard pressure played its part in the Warriors chase. We picked up vital wickets early on to put them on the back foot and the bowlers bowled in good areas with the pitch being a bit slow and up-and-down. It was a fantastic final, sometimes the low-scoring games are the best, Boucher said. Also read: Titans give glimpse of transformation done right That the Titans made it to 155 was thanks to David Wiese, who struck 24 not out off 15 balls and took 19 off the last over bowled by Sisanda Magala. Wiese s all-round performance was heroic as he then had to take over the captaincy in the first over of the Warriors innings after Morkel left the field with a strained hamstring after just five deliveries. He had just taken the opening wicket of Clyde Fortuin for a two-ball duck as Markram (brilliant in the field) held on to a scorcher at backward point. Wiese then bowled four overs for just 31 runs and claimed the key wicket of Jon-Jon Smuts, caught behind for 16. Dala and Lungi Ngidi, whose two for 27 included the vital scalps of Colin Ingram, caught behind for 12, and Ackermann, were also outstanding with the ball for the Titans. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.