Refiloe &#8216;Cassper Nyovest&#8217; Phoolo is on the cover of Forbes Africa, and no, he&#8217;s not pulling a DJ Sbu on us. He really has made it and could not wait to share the exciting news with his fans on Facebook. He shared a picture of the cover with the caption: &#8220;Mama I made it!!! I made it on the Forbes Cover!!!! All the glory to God!!! Black child , it&#8217;s possible!!! Go out there and do it for yourself!!! @forbesafrica out now!!!&#8221; To confirm the news, Forbes also shared on its Facebook page that Cassper had indeed graced its cover for the December/January issue. &#8220;Cassper Nyovest started performing in front of a few people at school, 20 years later he s filling up stadiums. For him, the best is yet to come. &#8220;See full story on the Dec 2016/Jan 2017 issue of Forbes Africa, page 85,&#8221; they wrote. @CassperNyovest started performing in front of a few people at school, 20 years later he s filling up stadiums &#8211; @forbesafrica out NOW! pic.twitter.com/n01WBddXzn &mdash; Forbes Africa (@forbesafrica) December 7, 2016 The Abashwe hitmaker told the magazine he did not ever want to get to a place where nobody knew who he was, a place we doubt he will ever know. Cassper&#8217;s name will go down in history as the first South African artist to fill up the 20 000-capacity Coca Cola Dome. His album also went gold on the same night. DJ Sbu got into trouble with the magazine earlier this year after he retweeted a fake cover of Forbes Africa, which featured a picture of the entrepreneur and an endorsement of his energy drink, Mo Faya. Shortly after, the magazine released a statement distancing itself from the cover. It wrote: On the 23rd of March 2015 Forbes Africa released a press statement informing the general public of a false Forbes Africa cover featuring Sbusiso Leope. The pending issue of trademark infringement and misrepresentation between Forbes Africa and Mr. Sbusiso Leope has attained closure, and has been resolved amicably. The image of Mr. Sbusiso Leope s with the beverage MoFaya on the Forbes Africa cover (the Image ) contains the unauthorised use of our trademark, brand name and logo. Further, the endorsement of the Image on social media, by posting and retweeting said image, contains no disclaimers and has created much confusion among our readers. While, Mr. Leope admits that he did not create the Image, our fundamental contention is the Image endorsed by him on social media is the unlicensed use of Forbes Africa s exclusive intellectual property rights. Further, the Image is misleading and represents an affiliation that does not exist and has not been approved by Forbes Africa. Mr. Leope has duly acknowledged our concerns and has agreed to take down the Image from his social media networks. It is also important to note that Mr Leope has made it clear that it was not his intention to mislead our readers. We seek to state that our intentions are purely to safeguard the Forbes Africa trademark and brand name, and protect our readers from being misled by the Image. Mr. Leope s spirit of entrepreneurship has been featured in Forbes.com USA, and we duly acknowledge that. The matter is resolved to the satisfaction of both parties.