The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) on Sunday applauded the swift arrest of the Spitskop farm murder suspect and called for crime not to be politicised, saying farm murders are not always racially motivated. The fact that the arrested suspect is [reportedly] a relative to the murdered 54-year-old Bertie Cilliers highlights that some callous farm murders are not politically and or racially motivated but are crimes of passion involving family disputes, Sanco national spokesperson Jabu Mahlangu said. Right wing organisations like the Freedom Front Plus and AfriForum have opportunistically and for political expedience chose to characterise farm murders not as a crime against which all South Africans should unite but as white genocide. Unfortunately, some own goals have mostly contributed to a resurgence of racism that undermines peaceful co-existence within our communities, unity, reconciliation, nation building, and social cohesion, he said. Mahlangu reiterated Sanco s earlier call for the rural safety plan to be boosted. Vigilance in farming communities as well as among role players involved in rural safety will eliminate the threat of opportunistic crime particularly during the festive season, he said. According to a police statement, a suspect in Friday s farm murder at Thabazimbi in Limpopo is under police guard in hospital in Rustenburg in North West after apparently shooting himself in the head. On Saturday morning, information was received that the suspect in the case was seen around the Rustenburg area in North West. Police officers reacted swiftly, joined by the Rustenburg Flying Squad. When the suspect noticed that his vehicle was being followed by SA Police Service (SAPS) members, a high-speed chase ensued along the Sun City road. The suspect was cornered and pulled off the road; he allegedly then shot himself in the head with the firearm believed to have been used during the farm attack. The 25-year-old man was seriously wounded, and taken to hospital for medical treatment under police guard. The firearm was confiscated and investigations were continuing, the statement said. African News Agency (ANA)