A delegation of over 80 South African business people will be jetting off to Algeria to participate in the African Investment and Business Forum taking place next week. Taking place in Algeria s capital city of Algiers from 3 to 5 December, the forum is set to be attended by over 2,000 delegates from different African countries. In a statement, South Africa s Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies, said the main objective of participating in the forum was to strengthen bilateral economic relations between South Africa and Algeria. Algeria has been South Africa s largest export trading partner in the North Africa region, having accounted for 43% of SA s total trade with North Africa in the period from 2011 to 2015, Davis said. The value of trade between the two countries reached over R13.4 billion, from 2011 to 2015. South African exports were estimated at R13 billion while imports from Algeria were R463 million. South Africa s top exports to Algeria includes vehicles, prepared foodstuffs, vegetable products, machinery, base metals and other products. Meanwhile, South Africa s top five imports from Algeria consist mainly of mineral fuels, chemicals, ceramic products, vehicles and other products. Davies said despite a skewed trade balance in favour of South Africa, a closer analysis of bilateral trade trends illustrated that the volume and value of trade was generally declining. He said that indicated that South Africa was gradually losing its import market share in Algeria. In 2011, roughly 72% of all South Africa s exports to North Africa were destined for the Algerian market and in 2015 the figure dropped to only 24% which is the lowest record in the past five years, Davies said. Algeria is seeking more trade and foreign investment to diversify its economy, especially in light of the current low oil prices, which have adversely affected Algeria s GDP growth rate in the past years. Davies said taking part in this forum would afford South African companies a first-hand opportunity to network, identify partners for joint ventures, and create opportunities for the export of value added goods and services to Algeria and the North Africa region. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.