The constable attached to the Skukuza SAPS, who allegedly murdered two people over the weekend, could not appear in court on Monday, as he had taken ill, reports the Lowvelder. ALSO READ: Alleged love triangle leads to two deaths in the Kruger Park The man, who cannot be named until he has appeared in court, allegedly shot and killed his wife and a contractor to South African National Parks (SANParks), in two separate incidents in the Kruger National Park (KNP) on Friday. He was supposed to appear in Bushbuckridge Magistrates&#8217; Court on Monday. He was admitted to Matikwane Hospital in Mkhuhlu on Saturday. According to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid), the suspect is a diabetic and took ill on Saturday in the holding cells at Skukuza. He had trouble breathing. Skukuza police handed the docket to Ipid on Friday. Investigators from Ipid visited the crime scenes on Friday night and are investigating further. Moses Dlamini, Ipid spokesperson, confirmed the events according to Captain Phillip Fakude from Acornhoek police. A police constable stationed at Skukuza SAPS allegedly shot and killed William Khanyile, 38, at the Skukuza Workshop. Khanyile was from Malawi. He is not a SANParks employee and works for a contractor. The victim was on duty at the workshop. The suspect arrived in his grey Mercedes-Benz C Class, parked and shot Khanyile five times in the upper body and drove away. This happened at about 2.25pm. The suspect went to the compound where his house is situated. When he stopped his vehicle next to the door, his wife ran out of the house crying. She threw her handbag to her neighbour, who was outside, and ran. The suspect gave chase. About 39 metres from the house, he shot her three times in the upper body. She died on the scene. Thereafter he went into the house, left the 9mm weapon on the bed and exited the home. The neighbour went inside and hid the weapon. The suspect went back inside the house after a while and locked himself in. Captain Leon Davel from the Vereeniging K9 Unit, who is on duty with Rhino 6, went to the scene and requested the suspect to open the door. He refused. Davel broke the door down and arrested him at 2.50pm. The neighbour handed the firearm to the captain. Three empty cartridges were found next to the second victim. It it is alleged that the suspect claimed that his wife was in love with the first victim. The first scene is about 800 metres from the second. The second victim was legally married to the suspect. A sombre mood prevailed in Skukuza at the weekend, with staff of the park in shock over the incident. Glenn Phillips, managing executive of the KNP, requested stakeholders and role players who attended the inauguration of the SANParks Forum for People with Disabilities in Skukuza on Saturday to observe a moment of silence for the victims. This tragedy happened during the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children, which makes it very poignant and sad. We need to listen, care and respect one another more to prevent violence in our societies, said Phillips. The suspect was informed of the two murder charges against him on Sunday. His first appearance and bail application was postponed to December 12. Caxton News Service More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.