Journalists who testified before a parliamentary ad hoc committee probing the fitness of the SABC board to hold office have received death threats following their damning testimonies on Monday. ALSO READ: Online petition to scrap 90% local music quota Vincent Smith, the chairperson of the committee, told MPs on Wednesday he was informed about the threats late on Tuesday, saying they were an assault on parliament. &#8220;We reiterate our call to the crime-fighting agencies to assist and ensure that all witnesses appearing before the inquiry are protected, he said. Parliament must, with one voice, condemn any effort to subvert oversight and to subvert the deepening of democracy. United Democratic Movement (UDM) MP Nqabayomzi Kwankwa read out one of the threatening text messages received by one journalist. One of the journalists shared a text message with me. I d like to read it to this meeting and the people of South Africa. It says: Traitors protecting your white friends in Parliament has started this and telling lies about your comrades. You were warned. We don t kill blacks, but will sit and watch the blood flow. Kwankwa condemned the intimidation without revealing the journalist s name. On Monday, four journalists testified on behalf of the so-called SABC 8 and laid bare the public broadcaster s dirty laundry before stunned MPs. Journalist Lukhanyo Calata said embattled SABC executive Hlaudi Motsoeneng is likely to have the support of President Jacob Zuma when he explained why the former Free State junior producer rose to become a powerful force within the state broadcaster. He also said he was called to cover the president in a positive light and in some instances, stories were simply not aired for being too negative about Zuma. ALSO READ: Numsa president Andrew Chirwa calls Gordhan a sellout The SABC 8 were fired earlier this year for openly speaking out against a new editorial policy banning the airing of footage of violent protests from television news bulletins. They were later reinstated, but like his colleagues Thembeka Gqubule, Krivani Pillay, and Vuyo Mvoko, Calata testified that the censorship and slanting of news continued at the SABC. MPs have asked police to update them on their investigation into previous acts of intimidation and harassment against members of the SABC 8. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.