Former Deputy Registrar of pensions Rosemary Hunter has lost her court application to force the Financial Services Board (FSB) to appoint an independent body to investigate the cancellation of thousands of dormant pension funds. Hunter has been at odds with the FSB&#8217;s chief executive officer, Dube Tshidi, for years about the cancellations of the registration of so-called &#8220;orphan funds&#8221; without boards of trustees between 2006 and 2013, which she regarded as unlawful and negligent. She was of the view that the assets of the dormant funds had not been paid to those members who became entitled thereto and that their remained unpaid benefits in the dormant funds. Hunter in court papers accused Tshidi of deliberately undermining her efforts to investigate the issue and of trying to get rid of her by offering her a R6 million &#8220;golden handshake&#8221; on condition of confidentiality, which she refused, and by way of failed disciplinary proceedings. She also sought an order to force the FSB to give her access to reports into the cancellations by retired Judge Kate O&#8217;Regan and auditing firm KPMG after the Board refused her access and wanted the court to supervise an independent investigation into the issue. Hunter in June last year reported her suspicion of fraudulent or corrupt activities involving officials of the FSB to the Hawks. Acting judge Hendrik Jacobs ruled in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Wednesday that Hunter had no legal standing to seek the relief she sought and that the matter was already being investigated by an inspector. The judge said Hunter&#8217;s concerns that nothing might come of her efforts to regularise the cancellation of orphan funds now that her term had expired, could be taken care of by the public protector. He said Hunter&#8217;s views were not shared by all members of the FSB, which gave rise to a war of words that was waged in the offices of the FSB for years and throughout the acrimonious legal proceedings. He questioned the wisdom of Hunter&#8217;s conduct to reveal her views of the unlawfulness of the cancellations on a public podium, which obviously embarrassed top officials of the FSB. The judge said both the original decisions to cancel the orphan funds and the subsequent decisions to have it investigated had not been set aside and had to be respected. It was not for Hunter to dictate her views and preferences to the FSB by means of judicial intervention, he added.