Durban University of Technology student Bonginkosi Khanyile, accused of using a slingshot during the recent #FeesMustFall protests, will learn on Thursday whether his bail application has been granted by the Pietermaritzburg High Court. Khanyile, a student activist who is part of #FeesMustFall campaign, has been in custody since September 27 and has twice been denied bail in the Durban Magistrate s Court by Magistrate Jackie Jonck. Prosecutor Advocate Kevin Singh argued that Khanyile had been refused bail because he was inciter of violence . He argued that Khanyile would pose a threat to witnesses if granted bail. Singh told the court that Khanyile was capable of violating bail conditions as the appellant holds a leadership role within the institution therefore has access to incite violence and intimidate witnesses . ALSO READ: Outa wants Hlaudi charged over alleged fraud at SABC He referred to video footage submitted as evidence allegedly showing Khanyile using a slingshot to attack police officers. Advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi argued that it was not visible or clearly audible that the Bonginkosi Khanyile was inciting violence against members of the South African Police Service (SAPS). He said it was not clear that Khanyile had breached all of his four previous bail conditions making him ineligible for bail on the current charges. Khanyile was out on bail for charged levelled against him in February when he was arrested in September. Students, political party leaders of the Economic Freedom Fighters and church members representing different denominations gathered at the court for hearing. EFF student command secretary general Phiwada Madokwe said they were in court to show support for a fellow student and comrade. He added that they were hopeful that a fair judgement will be delivered because Khanyile is a student not a criminal . Judge Nokosinathi Chilli is expected to deliver judgement at the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Thursday. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.