The tussle between the Limpopo department co-operative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs MEC Makoma Makhurepetje and one of President Jacob Zuma s die-hard supporters, Steven Malo A Botsheba Sefofa escalated on Tuesday, with Sefofa saying he was considering legal action. Sefofa fired the first salvo when he accused Makhurepetje of booking and not paying him. Sefofa, musician-cum-businessman, claimed he was appointed telephonically by Makhurupetje to do loud-hailing during a visit by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des Van Rooyen in Bolobedu to officially inform the Modjadji Traditional Authority about the recognition of the Queenship of the Balobedu tribe earlier this year. He said he charged the department R200 000. The department of co-operative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs hit back at Sefofa, accusing him of a deliberate intention to politicise an administrative matter. The department of cooperative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs spokesperson, Evans Selomo, said Sefofa was taking advantage of Makhurupetje. We strongly condemn his behaviour, Selomo said. ALSO READ: Limpopo MEC, Zuma s biggest fan in bitter pay dispute We verified with all the officials who were involved, he never submitted a quotation, he was never given an official order and he never submitted any invoice for payment. As far as we are concerned, all stakeholders took their obligations in terms payment of services rendered at this event. Selomo said in the department no one gets appointed telephonically. All service providers are required to submit quotation and are given an official order before any service can be rendered, he said. Mr Sefofa raised the matter with us and we pleaded with him on several occasions to submit any evidence both to us or Letaba municipality to allow us to intervene and to date, nothing was received by either of us. The Citizen has seen the SMS Makhurupetje sent to Sefofa. It reads: I said you must submit your quote to Letaba municipality and ANC on Vuwani. Please talk to them to pay you. Please with due respect. Stop stalking me please. Selomo said the SMS was unfortunate. However, the SMS does not accept any responsibility, but pleads with Mr Sefofa, as she was receiving endless calls and text messages on the matter outside her area of operation, Selomo said. The MEC has raised the matter with us as officials, as her name is being dragged on the mud for selfish reasons. On Monday, Letaba municipality municipal manager Gloria Mashaba confirmed that she was instructed by the department of department co-operative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs officials to pay Sefofa. And in a bid to force the department to pay him after attempts to be paid proved fruitless, Sefofa pleaded with Van Rooyen to intervene. Sefofa was scathing on Tuesday, vowing to expose how Makhurepetje and other senior government officials have belittled him I asked Evans Selomo that because this is a government event, where is the order?, Sefofa said. He told me that a private person is going to pay me. I am still waiting to be paid even today. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 