There could be bloodshed in Mpumalanga if the two white men, accused of assaulting a black man and shoving him into a coffin, were released on bail, the Middleburg Magistrate s Court heard on Thursday. The court heard this during the bail hearing of Theo Martins Jackson and Willem Oosthuizen. The accused face charges including kidnapping, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm in connection with an incident in which they allegedly beat and shoved Victor Rethabile Mlotshwa into a coffin while threatening to set him alight. There are allegations that there will be bloodshed if the accused are released, investigating officer Constable Dimakatso Bahula said while testifying as a State witness. She was being cross-examined by advocate John Welch, who was representing both the accused, on why his clients should not be granted bail. If you can know where the accused stay and the court decides to release them on bail, can that satisfy you, asked Welch. Bahula responded in the negative. She said there was also a possibility that the accused might interfere with the outstanding police investigations if they were released and stayed in an undisclosed area. As far as the outstanding investigations are concerned, I suggest to you Madam that there is no possibility that the accused will influence the investigation, assured Welch. Bahula responded: If they will stay in a place where there are no investigations, that s fine. READ MORE: Coffin assault victim in high spirits outside Mpumalanga court Bahula also told the court that accused number two, Jackson, had previously shot the pigs of a Mr Mahlangu at an undisclosed area. Magistrate JE Dumehleli said the shooting incident was not relevant to the present case and adjourned the matter to give both parties more time to present their arguments. Mlotshwa was supported by a crowd of about 200 African National Congress (ANC) members who sang anti-racism songs and danced outside the court. There were also several white men and women who were in and outside the court to show support for the accused. At the end of the formal proceedings, a group of ANC members stood at the entrance of the court premises and repeatedly slapped two white dolls with their hands that were tied onto a piece of a wooden plank. A woman who was carrying the plank and, who declined to be named, said the dolls were a replica of the accused. Addressing the crowd of ANC members from the back of the truck earlier in the day, Nkangala district chairperson of the ANC Speedy Mashilo condemned racism and insisted that there were many white people in this country who were not racists. Not every white person in a racist, said Mashilo. We don t want to make a mistake in the ANC. We need to be disciplined. The bail hearing continues Friday. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.