In my view, vice-chancellor Adam Habib qualifies as the person of the year. Having survived a tempestuous year, still mentally intact, which I gather from his erudite Daily Maverick article on December 5, he confronts the competing interests of university governance and management, head on. He lays the complex issues of running a university for all, especially the students, on the table. Appealing to the intellectual faculties of students, staff, and politicians, he recounts the difficulties of juggling the need to fund services, needy students and raise money for capital investments, with the necessity to recruit the best academics. The violent protesters don t seem to get it, or rather refuse to get it. Universities need to pay for electricity, water, maintenance, cleaning, furniture, equipment, libraries, laboratories and security services, apart from attending to their core business of conducting research, teaching and learning. Since the costs of running universities are exorbitant, yet so easily destroyed by violent protesters, many of the captains of industry are exploring virtual universities that make use of online technology to make buildings, classrooms, and residences redundant. The Khan Academy, an online college, already offers cutting-edge education. This is what will ultimately happen should the violent rampages continue. The destruction by students of libraries, halls, labs, residences and musical equipment is the reason alternative sources of teaching and learning are being explored. Virtual universities will be the consequence of the destructive and lawless #FeesMustFall campaign. Free education can be as much of a curse as it can be a blessing. Anything given for free tends to lose its value and students should be careful what they wish for. Soon, the value of their education will diminish, as already manifested by the latest Brics rankings of universities, where South African universities have displayed a precipitous fall. Many European universities that offer free education are saddled with students who hang around for years before finally graduating. Some innovative thinking is necessary to ensure the sustainability of universities while improving the training and throughput rates of students. With the 8% increase in student fees, universities might as well experiment simultaneously with institutionalising a national work/ study programme similar to the ones operating on many American campuses whereby students with financial need both undergraduate and postgraduate earn money while reading for a degree. Some departments in universities already do this, but nowhere is this a nationally driven programme that compels all higher education institutions to adopt it. Work/study opportunities would include working during the day and taking classes in the evening, earning a regular wage; paid internships or part-time or full-time employment; and employment for international students. The aim is to help students earn money to pay for college or university fees. Another goal will be to encourage community service and explore work related to the student s course of study. If students studying medicine are compelled to do community service, why are all other students not required to do the same? FILE PICTURE: Rhoda Kadalie, anti-apartheid activist, making a speech in Athlone. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.