Don t blame migrants for being in Johannesburg without proper documentation if your systems are faulty, the African Diaspora Forum (ADF) told Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba and Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba on Monday. They were marching in protest at what they perceived as anti-migrant comments from government, especially the recent comments of Mashaba in relation to undocumented immigrants. Mashaba was criticised for what the ADF alleged were xenophobic comments when he said at a press conference: Anyone who is in the city illegally must be prepared to face us. They must know we are not going to be that government that tolerates criminality in our midst. If they think they have the resources to fight us, we are ready as a new government to fight criminality in our city so that our people can take ownership of the city. ALSO READ: Mashaba faces protest over alleged xenophobic remarks Representing 21 African countries, the ADF was formed as a not-for-profit organisation after the 2008 xenophobic violence. Many, many migrants are struggling to get their permits, said Ivorian community leader Marc Gbaffou on behalf of the ADF outside the Johannesburg Civic Centre, where he handed over a memorandum to Community Safety MMC Nonhlanhla Sifumba. What we know is that when somebody is a visitor in your country, and after five years you are not able to provide him with proper documentation, you must tell yourself that your system is faulty and you must give yourself time to fix that system, said Gbaffou. You don t use your faulty system and blame it on your visitor. Gbaffou also took an indirect swipe at the Border Control Operational Coordinating Committee comprised of the departments of home affairs, intelligence, transport, public works, agriculture, health and defence as well as the SA Police Service and SA Revenue Service for failing to maintain South Africa s borders. You know, when people know the borders are open, people will cross them. In other countries people are saying they will build a wall. We don t expect that; what we expect South Africa to do is to be able to control its borders because it s not the duty of the visitor to control the border, said Gbaffou, adding he didn t condone illegal border crossings. Our mothers and sisters are selling mealie meal on the streets here, they just need to be managed by the mayor; they don t want to be treated as criminals, because they are not, Gbaffou said. Problems with the system are recognised in Gigaba s Green Paper on International Migration, for which submissions and comments closed in September. The paper states bluntly South Africa is the only country in the Southern African Development Community known for not having a commission that coordinates the processing, protection and support of asylum seekers and refugees&#8221;. &#8220;Such structures address not only the high level strategic and policy issues, but the detail of implementation and the allocation of responsibilities. In creating any additional structures the primary aim should be to enable the department of home affairs and other departments to execute their core mandates with regard to immigration in an effective manner, it says. Gigaba wrote in the introduction, Humans have always moved, and will always move, to where they are secure and can develop to their potential. The global movement of people, information, technology and capital across the globe gives us huge opportunities as a nation and, at the same time, presents very serious risks. According to the 2013 United Nations population report, at least 3% (232 million) of the human population are international migrants who have moved across borders to live in other countries for 12 months or more. A random sample would include labourers, unqualified artisans, highly qualified professionals, families and mass migrations caused by violence or natural disasters. People migrate for complex and varied reasons. Home Affairs was unable to confirm the status of the paper. Sifumba said Mashaba was out of the city on council business and would respond later. amandaw@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.