The chairperson of Umalusi Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training, Professor John Volmink, has said there has been no marked improvement in the country s mathematics results this year. With mathematics, we almost made no progress over the years. It is the one subject that is completely flat, he said. Volmink was speaking yesterday during a media briefing at Persequor Techno Park, in Pretoria, where he announced that Umalusi was satisfied that the 2016 matric results had been approved and were credible. Volmink said on December 23, Umalusi had made adjustments to certain subjects. He added that performance for 2016 had moved closer to the average historical performance profile. It is pleasing to see that the marks for subjects such as physical science and history could be left as unadjusted, and that there was a marked improvement in subjects such as accounting. However, he said, subjects such as geography showed a marked drop in performance, while other subjects such as life sciences, business studies and economics, and several home languages, have not shown the progress that was hoped for. Volmink said while there were many subjects where the performance fluctuated from year to year, mathematics had not moved significantly. In fact, what was alarming was that since 2014 mathematical literacy had joined mathematics as a learning area where performance was critically low. Volmink said with the leakage of Mathematics Paper 2, which was first leaked in Limpopo and then spilled over to Gauteng, the results of 100 pupils had to be withheld. It has been decided there is no need to rewrite Mathematics Paper 2. However, Umalusi will not approve the results of pupils involved in the leak, Volmink said. He said the department of basic education had appointed a task team to investigate the matter and to help identify the culprits. One is already behind bars. The Hawks, the South African Police Service and a private investigating unit are involved in the investigations, Volmink said. He said the whistleblower could not live with his conscience and had alerted authorities to the leaked paper. However, just because you are a whistleblower does not mean you are not guilty. He will be investigated [along] with the rest [of the suspects]. Volmink added that group copying had also taken place in KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng and Mpumalanga. He said in one case the invigilator had called a teacher to help a student who was the last still writing in the class. Results at these three centres will remain blocked and drastic measures will be taken against people who are dishonest, said Volmink. There was also talk that in some other instances a teacher had read out answers to the students. Umalusi said that, in spite of these challenges, nothing had compromised the integrity or credibility of the examinations as a whole. Umalusi CEO Dr Mafu Rakometsi said the class of 2016 was the third Grade 12 cohort to write the final examinations under the Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements, and that the Class of 2016 saw a significant increase in progressed pupils. virginiak@citizen.co.za