Jacob Zuma s presidency has been disastrous, and not only for SA there is every sign that it is also destroying him. Zuma, born in 1942, is no spring chicken. But the president s appearance has deteriorated markedly. Once bursting with energy and with a good colour, he has transformed into a grey, sometimes faltering figure. At the beginning of his first term in 2009, Zuma looked in excellent health. He had remarkable energy and vigour for a man then already in his late 60s, as demonstrated by his enthusiasm for young lovers, additional wives, and siring offspring. It was only in 2014, after a gruelling election campaign, that concerns were first openly voiced about his health. His family disclosed that he has diabetes and the media reported rumours of high blood pressure and a heart condition. Zuma s family also suggested that he might step down, a couple of years into this, his final presidential term. It s a prospect that although dismissed by the ANC, must still tantalise the increasing number of comrades who want him gone. By June that year, Zuma seemed frail and to have lost a lot of weight. His walking seemed stiffer than usual and, when going down the marble steps to the National Assembly doors, he needed assistance from speaker Baleka Mbete, reported Times Live. ALSO READ: What is it like for Mbeki to watch this Zuma horror movie? The health of a nation s president is an entirely legitimate subject of discussion and few know for certain what the actual state of Zuma s health is. Perhaps it is not Zuma s physical health that should be bothering us, but rather his mental health. Fortunately, we do already know that he is not certifiably crazy. During a road show a week ago, he had words of reassurance for his supporters: At least I know who [my enemies] are and what they are doing. I am not worried. If I was crazy, I would make the whole of South Africa crazy as well. Nevertheless, some of Zuma supposed statements during this week s marathon three-day national executive committee (NEC), where he faced ousting, were a tad worrying. There were escalating manifestations of the paranoid and persecutory tendencies that Zuma has fostered in the ANC for some time. In the Zuma camp s view, any political reverses are caused by counter-revolutionaries , CIA spies and imperialist collaborators . His own comrades attempt to oust him, Zuma told the NEC, was the result of exactly such a Western plot. And Zuma s enemies are seemingly all around him. The reason he had been jeered at the Nelson Mandela memorial service was because Gauteng ANC officials wished to humiliate him, he said. And then there are the assassination attempts. According to reports, Zuma said in his NEC closing remarks that he has been poisoned three times by those who wanted to prevent him leading the ANC and the country. It is a matter of public record that the Hawks are investigating a poisoning allegation against his wife, Nompumelelo Ntuli-Zuma, after the president fell ill two years ago. The two other claimed attempts have not been mentioned previously and apparently came as news to his NEC colleagues. Whatever the jibes, Zuma is certainly not crazy , as he put it. But clearly he is taking a great deal of physical and mental strain. The issue is how long this can continue without potentially dire results for both him and SA. William Saunderson-Meyer For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.