Here are just 12 of the many memorable Kruger incidents reported on this year: January Ensnared lion released An ensnared lion was freed and released back into the wild in January. At the time, Lesley Nyawo, a public relations officer for South African National Parks (SANParks), had said the lion s wound was treated after the animal was darted by park rangers. Pictures showing the lion with the snare wrapped tightly around its neck circulated on social media, shocking numerous wildlife enthusiasts. Upon assessment of the wound by the vets, [the wound] appeared not to be as bad as anticipated and displayed by images, Nyawo had said. READ MORE: Ensnared Kruger Park lion released February Kruger battles drought The Lowvelder reported in February that drought was taking its toll on the Kruger National Park (KNP) and that a visitor to the park was devastated by the sight of four dead hippos, which had seemingly died because water, and consequently food, is running out. William Mabasa, KNP spokesperson, predicted that tens of thousands of animals would die. For example, we have 48 000 buffaloes in the Kruger and may lose up to 28 000. However, we will definitely not bring in tankers of water, as was done during the severe drought in the 1960s. That was not beneficial to the natural ecosystem in the long run. READ MORE: Devastating effects of the drought become clear March Flooding causes road closures SANParks warned in March that the southern part of the KNP had become flooded after heavy rains in the area, prompting authorities to close some roads. Some roads and low water bridges had overflowed and were closed. The low water bridge at Sabie River on Wednesday. Picture supplied by SANParks READ MORE: Flooding prompts Kruger road closure April Three killed in taxi crash SANParks announced the passing of three day-visitors to the KNP after the taxi they were traveling in overturned on the road between Mopani and Shingwedzi in April, the Letaba Herald reported. Several others who suffered minor injuries in the accident were treated on the scene, while the more seriously injured were transported by ambulances to hospitals in the area. Preliminary reports suggest that there was no other car involved. According to eyewitnesses, the car veered off the road and overturned. READ MORE: Three die in accident in the KNP May Leopard takes residence in day visitor&#8217;s area The KNP s Letaba day visitors area was temporarily closed in May 2016 after a leopard made the site its residence by moving in with its kill, which it was gradually feeding on, reported the Lowvelder. For the safety of visitors the KNP management decided to close the site for the weekend, as the leopard s paw prints and the recently broken fence indicated it had been roaming around the site. Leopards are territorial animals and would not tolerate any intrusion into their territory, and therefore we decided to give it space for a few days. Our Wildlife Veterinary Staff will advise on how to deal with the situation next week, the KNP s William Mabasa was quoted as saying. READ MORE: Beware of roaming leopard at Letaba day visitors area June Hyena mauls visitor SANParks announced that an unfortunate incident occurred in the KNP, where a female hyena entered a camp in its park at about 4.30am at Crocodile Bridge and attacked a visitor who was sleeping in one of the tents at the camping site. According to the media statement by William Mabasa, acting head of communications, the visitor was a 15-year-old boy who was camping with his parents. Rangers found a hole under the perimeter fence where the animal could have entered the camp. READ MORE: Hyena mauls boy in Kruger Park Later in July, he was able to return to his Centurion home. Read more here July Ranger injured by buffalo One of the KNP regional rangers, Don English, was attacked and injured by a buffalo in the park in July. He had been conducting a routine buffalo sustainable off-take exercise. During the exercise a bull charged English at very close quarters. It managed to hit him in the chest before throwing him repeatedly in the air. English managed to grab on to the horns during the attack and hung on for dear life until the buffalo eventually calmed down. English was immediately attended to by a local doctor and airlifted by helicopter to Nelspruit Mediclinic, where he received further medical attention. Regional Ranger wounded by Buffalo in the KNPhttps://t.co/6U7ItGJPKN &mdash; SANParks (@SANParks) July 27, 2016 READ MORE: Kruger ranger wounded in buffalo attack August Accused rhino poacher shot dead An accused rhino poacher was shot and killed while allegedly attempting to poach again in the KNP in August. He was out on bail at the time. Russel Mokoena was one of five men accused of poaching a baby rhino at Care for Wild Africa Rehabilitation Centre. READ MORE: Poacher out on bail sneaks into Kruger again, gets killed September Car overturns An elderly man from Limpopo was hospitalised in September after his car overturned in the Satara area of the KNP. A white Ford sedan, driven by the man, 86, overturned on the H1/4, about eight kilometres north of Satara. It was suspected that due to the side of the road being uneven, he overturned when he went slightly off the road. A helicopter and local doctor rushed to the scene to attend to him, as he was trapped in the vehicle, which was lying on its roof. READ MORE: Elderly tourist stable after car overturned in Kruger Park October Tastes of the Kruger In October, the Lowvelder reported that the new and completely transformed Tshokwane Trading Post &amp; Picnic Site offered visitors to the Park a unique and delicious way of dining. Adrian Mar , consultant from Tourvest who designed the dishes on the menu and trains the kitchen staff and waitrons gave Lowvelder an insight into how to prepare an authentic venison potjie. Watch a demonstration here: READ MORE: Savour the flavours of the Kruger November Driver cuffed for reckless driving A driver was cuffed for reckless, negligent and drunk driving near Skukuza in the KNP in November and was released on bail in the Bushbuckridge Magistrates Court. ALSO READ: High speed believed to be the cause of Kruger crash Skukuza police spokesperson Warrant Officer Bossie Boshoff said the case had been postponed to February next year, as they awaited the results of the man s blood test. Acting head of communications for the SANParks William Mabasa said in his 17 years of working for the park, he could not recall any other time where one vehicle had hit another vehicle from behind in the KNP. READ MORE: &#8216;Reckless&#8217; Kruger park driver released on bail December Surveillance system launched A wide-area surveillance system, known as the Postcode Meerkat, was launched in KNP and comprises a suite of radar and electro-optic sensors that will detect, classify, monitor and track humans moving in the park over a wide area. In addition, the system has been designed to be mobile so that it can be rapidly deployed to prevent poaching crisis zones from developing. This is the first time that this kind of technology is being applied in a counter-poaching role in a bushveld environment, which makes the system unique. Smart thinking in its development allows it to differentiate between humans and animals, while its application will guarantee early warning and rapid response capabilities. READ MORE: Surveillance system to outsmart poachers launched in Kruger Park Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.