by Kieran CANNING By contrast, Barcelona still have work to do to reach the next round after being held 1-1 at Hercules in the first leg of their last 32 tie. Enzo, the oldest of Zidane&#8217;s four sons, all of whom play at different levels in Real&#8217;s youth teams, was introduced by his father, a legendary former player for Real and France, at half-time. The 21-year-old, who was previously coached by Zinedine at Real&#8217;s youth side Castilla before he took the top job at the Santiago Bernabeu in January, showed a glimpse of his father&#8217;s talent with a fine low finish from the edge of the area just after the hour mark. &#8220;If I take off my hat as a coach then I am happy for him as a father (too),&#8221; said Zidane. &#8220;But, in saying that, I watch what he does on the field as a coach and I am happy with how they all played.&#8221; With the tie over as a contest following Real&#8217;s 7-1 first leg win and El Clasico away to Barcelona to come on Saturday, Zidane made nine changes from the side that started the 2-1 win over Sporting Gijon last weekend. Norwegian starlet Martin Odegaard, 17, was also handed his full debut, but it was Dominican international Mariano Diaz who got Real off to a flying start as he slotted home the first of his hat-trick after just 23 seconds. James Rodriguez headed home the hosts&#8217; second before Mariano smashed in a third, but Leonesa did have a moment to savour when Yeray Gonzalez fired into the top corner from long range in first-half stoppage time. Enzo was then handed his long-awaited bow by his father, but ensured there was to be no claims of nepotism when he finished off a flowing team move with a classy right-footed finish. Mariano completed his hat-trick two minutes from time before a Cesar Morgado own goal. Barcelona also fielded a side with 11 changes ahead of the Clasico, but were made to pay by third tier Hercules. David Mainz bundled home at the back post seven minutes into the second-half to give the side form Alicante a shock lead. However, Manchester United target Carles Alena capped his debut with a wonderful strike from 25 yards to spare Barca&#8217;s blushes. Yannick Carrasco scored twice as Atletico Madrid also hit Guijelo for six in the first leg of their last 32 tie. A Saul Niguez penalty and Sime Vrsaljko&#8217;s first Atletico goal gave the visitors a 2-0 half-time lead before the Belgian struck twice in five second-half minutes. Angel Correa and Roberto Nunez rounded off the scoring. Sevilla and Villarreal took huge strides towards the last 16 with comprehensive first leg wins over Formentera (5-1) and Toledo (3-0) respectively. Second division Cordoba were the only victorious lower league side of the evening with a 2-0 win over Malaga.