The life sentence of a young Zimbabwean man who hacked an elderly Dutch immigrant to death on his smallholding six years ago has been reduced to 20 years&#8217; imprisonment on appeal because he was only 17 years old at the time. A full bench of the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria ruled that the life sentence imposed on Clayton Maleka in 2014 for his role in the gruesome murder of Dutch immigrant Albert de Jongh, 66, was disproportionate not so much to the crimes, but in relation to a child offender. Maleka was 17 years old when he and fellow Zimbabwean Nathan Tsamwisi attacked De Jongh on his smallholding at Wallmansthal, north of Pretoria. De Jongh was repeatedly hacked and bludgeoned with an axe and and a blow to his neck, which severed his spinal cord, caused his death. De Jongh&#8217;s body was found covered with grass and branches next to the gate outside his home. The accused claimed they had acted in self-defence as De Jongh wanted to attack them because of a pay dispute, but the court rejected their claim and found that they had planned the attack and were seen sharpening the axe before the murder. Maleka appealed against his sentence on the grounds of his youth. The Constitutional Court in 2010 declared the minimum sentence provisions unconstitutional insofar as they applied to child offenders, who were defined as children under the age of 18. Judge Natvarlal Ranchod said it was not to say that a sentence of life imprisonment could never be imposed on a youthful offender, as it depended on a number of factors, including the youth&#8217;s level of maturity. He found that the trial judge had not sufficiently taken into consideration the principles applicable to sentencing child offenders, but added that the crime deserved a lengthy sentence. The attack on De Jongh had been planned and was brutal and savage. He was not killed in an attempt to overcome his resistance so that Maleka could rob him, and the plan was clearly to kill him outright. Maleka had shown no remorse and steadfastly maintained his innocence in the face of compelling evidence against him. The attack had traumatised De Jongh&#8217;s family in the Netherlands and had such a severe impact on his close friend of 23 years that she suffered a stroke. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.