The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI), better known as the Hawks, on Tuesday confirmed charges of treason and conspiracy to murder have been laid. In the firing line are Ipid head Robert McBride, former Gauteng Hawks boss Shadrack Sibiya, suspended crime intelligence agent Captain Candice Coetzee, and private investigator Paul O Sullivan. ALSO READ: Ipid dismisses Ntlemeza assassination and Zuma revolt plot allegations The case was opened after Gauteng Hawks boss Prince Mokotedi alleged in an affidavit that the men conspired to murder him and Hawks boss Lieutenant-General Berning Ntlemeza. The explosive claims also suggested that O&#8217;Sullivan was trying to force President Jacob Zuma to step down from office by orchestrating a revolt against him. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi told News24 the case is understood to have been registered at Bedfordview SAPS on Monday. This stems from serious allegations about a plot against senior government officials, the information of which was sourced from reliable sources. We are, however, not in a position to divulge the contents of the affidavit, the alleged senior government officials targeted and the so-called plotters, he said. However, Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini on Tuesday said a report by Mail &amp; Guardian, detailing a secret meeting between O Sullivan, Mcbride and Sibiya at a house that once belonged to Czech fugitive Radovan Krecjir, was being done to mislead the public. The concern is that people in high office are going to this extent to falsely implicate people in wrongdoing It is the same pattern that we have seen since the rendition saga began. It is being repeated by the very same characters Dlamini told The Times. McBride is expected to hold a press conference on the matter later on Tuesday. The affidavit apparently also claims that members of AfriForum and the official opposition Democratic Alliance were also involved in the surreptitious meeting targeted to identify certain people as targets for vexatious criminal investigations and shaming in the media . The list in the affidavit includes: Acting national police commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane. Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza. Gauteng Hawks boss Prince Mokotedi. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Advocate Shaun Abrahams. Newly appointed State Security Agency head Arthur Fraser. ALSO READ: Muthambi, Manyi met with Nedbank over closure of Guptas accounts Among other allegations apparently contained in Mokotedi s affidavit include that McBride Sibiya and O Sullivan wanted to destabilise the security forces of the country and to oust the president of the country through popular revolt . They are further accused them of planning to use information gathered on Zuma s son Duduzane, to mobilise the community to revolt and pressure the president to quit office according to the report. Mokotedi also alleged that the Zimbabwean rendition debacle over which McBride and former Hawks boss Anwa Dramat have been accused was the genesis of the alleged conspiracy . For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.