Andr &#8216;Smiley&#8217; van Wyk, who is accused of the gruesome murder of Pretoria North teenager Anika Smit, did not suffer from any mental illness or defect and was fit to stand trial, the Pretoria North Magistrate&#8217;s Court has heard. Van Wyk, 24, was earlier his year referred to the Weskoppies psychiatric hospital in Pretoria for mental observation after a district surgeon said in a report Van Wyk could not describe what had happened during the incident when Smit was killed, as he said he could not remember it. Prosecutor Tania Carstens told the court the report indicated that Van Wyk was fit to stand trial. She said Van Wyk had undergone numerous tests and scans and according to the result of the tests suffered from no mental disorders at the time of the incident. Van Wyk&#8217;s advocate Corrie Nieuwenhuys said his client would not be applying for bail at this stage. The case was postponed to January 17 for further investigation. The State said it was still waiting for the results of DNA tests. The National Prosecuting Authority has given instructions that Van Wyk must be tried in the High Court when his trial is ready to proceed. Van Wyk has been charged with murdering, raping and mutilating the body of the 17-year-old Smit, who was a schoolfriend, in March 2010. The blonde schoolgirl&#8217;s father Johan discovered her naked body in their home in Theresa Park when he returned home from work on 10 March 2010. She had been sexually violated, had several stab wounds and her hands had been chopped off and removed from the scene. Her hands were never recovered. The grade 11 pupil at the Ho rskool Gerrit Maritz in Pretoria was at home with an ear infection that day. Van Wyk handed himself over the the police in September after a lengthy inquest to determine if someone could be held responsible for her death. Van Wyk&#8217;s father, her schoolfriend Damian Treeby and her former boyfriend Nico Venter were all names as &#8220;persons of interest&#8221; in the inquest, but Van Wyk&#8217;s name was never mentioned. The inquest has been postponed indefinitely to await the outcome of the criminal trial.