The South African Weather Service has called on motorists to be extra careful , as many prepare to embark on their festive season holiday trips from Thursday. As had been the case over the past few days, more rainfall was forecast for Thursday in several parts of the country, particularly holiday destinations. Forecaster Bransby Bulo on Wednesday told The Citizen that those headed to the Free State from Gauteng faced a 60% chance of thundershowers on their journey on Thursday afternoon. Those travelling to Limpopo and Mpumalanga were also cautioned to exercise extra caution, as morning fog patches were expected following the recent rainfall. Elsewhere, in KwaZulu-Natal, where it has also been raining recently, fog patches were also on the cards over the Ladysmith and Newcastle areas. Those who will be travelling from the eastern side of Free State towards western KwaZulu-Natal, should also be extra careful, Bulo said. ALSO READ: Don t warn your Facebook friends about roadblocks police Severe thunderstorms were also forecast for Kokstad and East London in the Eastern Cape today and motorists were advised to drive with caution. Very hot weather conditions were forecast for the western parts of the country, including the Western and Northern Cape provinces, whose maximum temperatures were expected to range between 31-and-42oC. Johannesburg Metro Police Department spokesperson Superintendent Wayne Minnaar called on motorists to always obey the rules of the road, saying anyone found in the wrong would face the music. Motorists must avoid reckless driving and not drive while under the influence of alcohol and drugs because we do have instruments to test if they ve had one too many, Minnaar said. Apart from the highways, many main roads in suburbs and townships also tend to be very busy during this time of the year, then pedestrians also become vulnerable. He said anyone caught driving 40km over the legal speed limit would be nabbed on the spot. We have already started with our massive roadblock operations in conjunction with the South African Police Service and traffic police. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.