The SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) has accused the DA-led Midvaal Municipality of depriving some of its 38 suspended members of the right to different African language interpreters during ongoing disciplinary proceedings. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa steps up in race to succeed Zuma Samwu argues that among the languages used by some of the workers were Sesotho, Setswana, IsiXhosa and IsiZulu. However, the municipality only allocated a Sesotho interpreter for them. The workers were suspended for allegedly participating in an illegal picket and unlawful, violent and disruptive protest action. The Midvaal municipality representative at the hearings, Hugo Pienaar from law firm Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr, said: The company (municipality) wants to apply a fair process. These are people that are not illiterate and they communicate in English on a daily basis. There is a company policy that they must communicate in Sesotho, English and Afrikaans. Samwu coordinator Brenda Maubane argued that the employees had the right to insist on an interpreter. The law gives the employees the right to have their own interpreter of the language of their choice. You cannot compare an ordinary meeting with a disciplinary hearing, she said. These are very important hearings because the jobs of the employees are on the line. You cannot compromise their jobs by denying them the right to know what is actually said in the hearing. They need to hear what is being said to them so they can defend themselves. They are being denied the right to have an interpreter of the language of their choice. You cannot dictate to a Zulu person that they will only have access to a Sesotho interpreter. ALSO READ: Government ready to pay Marikana compensation, says presidency She said language barriers caused interruptions during hearings because some of the workers continuously asked for clarity and we then have to stop and explain things to them , while Pienaar said the employer also had to be considered. Fair process also applies to the employer. Hearings must be conducted as speedily and properly as possible. If people want to testify in their mother tongue, they will certainly be allowed to do so. That has been our position throughout, said Pienaar. There s a lawyer that will assist them as far as possible, but no court or institution will allow a process where every sentence is translated into 10 different languages and it is very unfair to the employer. In terms of the company policy, on a daily basis the language used is English. Pienaar said the workers had been charged with vandalising the city during an unprotected strike . vicky@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.