Two years after Midrand resident Thohira Mitha was strangled at her home, domestic worker Deliwe Zwakala and three accomplices were found guilty of murder in the Palm Ridge court on Thursday. Mitha, who was 27-years-old, was strangled in her home on December 10, 2014 after three men knocked on the door of her Vorna Valley, Midrand, home. Police confirmed at the time that the suspects stole two laptops and one set of earphones. Independent Media reports that the three accomplices were sentenced to life imprisonment while Zwakala was sentenced to 23 years for murder with an additional 13 years for orchestrating the robbery. She is to serve the sentences concurrently. Zwakala had been in custody since her arrest following the incident in December 2014, while the other three accused had been in custody since their arrest in May 2015. Zwakala was pregnant at the time of her arrest and gave birth while in custody. She has another child of six years. The court reportedly ordered for a proposed home for the children be inspected by a social worker. Midrand Reporter reported last year that Zwakala&#8217;s mother had demolished her shack in Ivory Park following her arrest. In a sitting at the Randburg Magistrates&#8217; Court in January 2015, it was heard that when Zwakala was first questioned by police soon after the murder incident, she said she had arrived at work as normal at 7.49am to find Mitha working on her laptop in the dining room. Zwakala said she started with her duties and at about 10.30am while working in the bedroom she heard a knock at the door. Ms Mitha went to open the door, I heard knocking, the door opened, read Zwakala s legal representative, advocate Muvhavha Twala from the accused s statement. Then she screamed. Zwakala claims to have gone to her employer&#8217;s aid at that time. She found three men had entered the home and one of them had his hands around Mitha s neck. She fought back, the other two men were [trying to subdue her]. The statement then went on to describe how the three men tied Zwakala s hands and feet, gagged and blindfolded her, and then put her in the bedroom. During that process Zwakala said she stopped hearing her employer s voice. Although it was unclear how the accused managed to free herself, she shuffled to the door, opened it and found Mitha on the floor. Immobile. She looked like she had fainted. Her second statement to police, which was read out by chief prosecutor Yusuf Baba, tells a different story. Zwakala had already been incarcerated on suspicion of murder at that time. In it, Zwakala names a man, Khulu, who she had met at a local tavern in Ivory Park. Khulu gave me [Zwakala] a cheap cellphone from which he could contact me, read Baba. In the statement Zwakala also said she became irritated of Khulu constantly asking about her workplace. She gave him the cellphone back, however, on the day in question, he called her and told her he was going to visit her workplace. When she got to the door, there were two other men with him. They took two laptops and the safe which was hidden in the bedroom. As they were leaving, they asked her if she wanted to go with them. She refused as she was worried and felt bad about what had happened to her employer. Zwakala was arrested the day after the robbery on December 11, 2014. The two stolen laptops were recovered in Ivory Park. Caxton News Service More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.