KwaZulu-Natal co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube on Sunday condemned what appears to be a well-orchestrated killing spree of public officials which has now claimed another councillor in the uPhongolo local municipality . Mbhekiseni Pat Khumalo, 57, an ANC councillor in Ward 7 of the uPhongolo Municipality in northern KwaZulu-Natal, was shot dead at his homestead at Kwalubisi Village by an unknown assailant who knocked at his house at about 8pm on Saturday night pretending to be a resident needing help. Khumalo died at the scene, Dube-Ncube said in a statement. ALSO READ: Police arrest 3 for KZN councillor s murder She expressed outrage, anger, and shock at the killing of yet another councillor while the province was still licking its wounds from the murder of councillor Ace Houston in Harding and the murder of Inkosi Mathonsi of Mandeni. We have not seen this many killings in KZN in a very long time and this latest murder is threatening to reverse the stability we have built over time in the province with a long history of violent conflict. These attacks are a blow to our province s democratic system of local government as the victims were elected representatives of the people. We express our condolences to the family and community of the slain councillor, she said. We call on the law enforcement agencies to bring those who committed this callous crime to book speedily. We call upon the community to remain calm during this difficult time and allow the law to take its cause. We also call upon the leadership of the area to work together to ensure peace and stability in the area and resist any temptation to have premature conclusions. We are indeed shocked that in this day and age people can still murder councillors, Dube-Ncube said. The African National Congress also condemned Khumalo s murder, saying it was shocked and saddened. At this stage, details regarding the murder remained sketchy, but it appeared that the attacker asked Khumalo s younger child to tell him to step outside the house so they could talk. He was then shot several times, ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma said. The ANC is very much concerned about the systematic killings directed against its councillors. It seems that there are well-orchestrated plans to murder ANC councillors. Cde Khumalo is the third ANC councillor murdered after [the] August 3 local government elections, he said. It was most concerning and disheartening that all the assassins who attack public representatives are still walking freely . The continuous killings of public representatives have a potential to create instability and make other councillors unable to discharge their duties to service communities. We have not lost hope to our law enforcement that they will finally bring these killers to book. At the moment, as ANC, we would not like to speculate about the motive behind this heinous crime, he said. ALSO READ: More killings: IFP candidate gunned down The ANC appealed to the community to help the police with any information that could lead to the arrest of the masterminds behind the killings of our councillors . The ANC has full confidence that the commission of inquiry [appointed] to investigate politically-motivated violence in the province will shed some light with the people as to why public representatives continue to be targetted. The ANC conveys its heartfelt condolences to the Khumalo family, comrades, and the community he served with dedication, Zuma said. African News Agency (ANA)