A South African peacekeeper is among seven people killed in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo in clashes sparked by President Joseph Kabila holding on to power, as his mandate to lead the central African country ends on Tuesday. The peacekeeper was killed in Butembo, a city of about one million people in North Kivu province, during an exchange of fire with suspected combatants of a Mayi Mayi armed group. Two other peacekeepers from South Africa were injured. UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon has condemned the killing of the attack on the peacekeepers deployed with the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) in a statement on Tuesday. The UN chief called on the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to ensure that this attack is investigated and its perpetrators are brought to justice&#8221;. He underlined, once again, that attacks against UN peacekeepers were unacceptable. ALSO READ: UN delivers measles vaccine to help protect Somali children Maman S Sidikou, the special representative of the secretary-general and head of MONUSCO, also strongly condemned the militia attack . Underlining that attacks against peacekeepers are considered a war crime and that perpetrators will be held accountable, Sidikou reaffirmed that this heinous attack would not undermine the commitment and determination of MONUSCO to fulfill its protection of civilians and neutralisation of armed groups mandate, said the mission in a statement. Ban and Sidikou expressed their deepest condolences to the families of the deceased as well as to the governments of DRC and South Africa. They wished the injured a quick recovery. The president s mandate ends on Tuesday. He s barred from a third mandate under the constitution, and the opposition has accused the authorities of delaying an election in the hope of reworking the constitution to extend his tenure. &#8211; Additional reporting by Africa News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.