Nigerian Fintech startup Paystack on Monday said it had closed on seed investment of $1.3 million (R18 million) from international investors. The company, which is backed by the American seed incubator Y Combinator, said investors included Tencent, Comcast Ventures and Singularity Investments, with participation from Spark, M&amp;S Partners, Tokyo Founders Fund, Blue Rinc Capital, Pave Investments, KIBS-CFY Partners, Michael Siebel, Justin Kan, Olumide Soyombo, Leonard Stiegeler and a number of angel investors. The announcement follows news that the fintech start-up had built a payment gateway integration for Shopify, one of the world s largest e-commerce platforms. The statement said Paystack s platform solved the considerable challenges of online payment transactions in Nigeria by seamlessly connecting all multi-channel payment options with merchants across the country. It allows merchants to accept payments from around the world via credit card, debit card and bank transfer on web and mobile. Paystack is platform agnostic , meaning it does not favour one payment platform over another, which the company said was unique in the very fragmented African fintech landscape. Merchants who sign up for Paystack can receive live payments from customers within 30 minutes of integration and the product allows for recurring billing, it added. Launched in 2015 by Shola Akinlade and Ezra Olubi, the company runs its operations from Silicon Valley and Lagos, Nigeria. The statement said plans for the funding included building the engineering team in Lagos, expanding sales and marketing operations and accelerating product development. Akinlade, Paystack chief executive, said: We have built and refined a product for Africa that we hope will act as a catalyst for the continent s online economy. We know Africa s digital economy has potential, many billions of dollars of potential, we simply need to unlock it and make businesses work better, faster and more effectively. Paystack will do this. Now moving out of beta, Paystack has partnered with some of Nigeria s leading Internet companies, iROKOtv, Jobberman, Payporte and Hotels.ng. The payment platform has also built a strong following among the country s tech community, with more than 30 independent developers already having built additional plug-ins and tools for Paystack. Paystack is launching its service in Nigeria, after which it plans to roll out across the continent