South Africa institutionalised racism for decades, and that is why it is difficult for some to abandon it, President Jacob Zuma has reminded the country. He has often turned to the historical legacy challenges imposed by apartheid to mitigate against criticism of his government, and this weekend was no different. ALSO READ: Blade slams Zuma, says a man who can be bought not fit to lead SA He was speaking during the closing of the 16 Days of Activism campaign in Bethlehem, Free State, on Saturday. Racism excluded the black majority from proper education, the right to participate in the running of the country and social development, Zuma said. This is a legacy we are dealing with. We are rebuilding a nation that was devastated by the system. He said South Africa could never be likened to any other country because of its brush with apartheid. Many analysts liken South Africa to other countries, which never had apartheid, and talk as if whatever shortcoming we have is because South Africans are dumb. That is not true, he said. Even if other people tell us not to talk about the past, we know the past; we fought and we will never forget it. Because of that, we must always indicate that part of our challenges today are challenges from yesterday. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa steps up in race to succeed Zuma Zuma said those who wanted to talk about South Africa should not forget the facts . He called on South Africans to play their role in protecting women and children against abuse. Amid growing calls for Zuma to step down, Free State premier Ace Magashule has continued to swim resolutely against the tide. Speaking at the same event, Magashule said the unknowns calling for Zuma to step down did so only in the media. Those are criminals who just love noise and are being promoted by the media, Magashule said. Let s respect and support the president because those who say he must not finish his term are never seen in communities, and we voted for him to lead us. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.