A 45-year-old woman accused of the murder of her three-year-old daughter was denied bail at the Brits Magistrates&#8217; Court on Monday. The court ruled that Louisa Koekemoer s life was at danger should she be released on bail. Koekemoer was called as a State witness in the bail application of her husband Kobus Koekemoer charged with the murder of his step daughter Poppie van Der Merwe aged three. He allegedly kicked her to death at a farm in Mamogaleskraal near Brits on October 25, she died on arrival in hospital. An autopsy report indicated that it appeared she was hit with a blunt object on her head that caused severe bleeding on her brain. She also had various bruises on her face, chest and legs. After the police questioned people associated with the Koekemoer couple they decided to arrest Louise as well. She was arrested on December 15. Prosecutor Hanna Conradie opposing bail told the court that it was not in the interest of justice not to grant her bail as her life could be at danger. ALSO READ: Young axe killer has sentenced reduced He told the court that after her daughter was murdered, Koekemoer was kidnapped and assaulted. The community had been involved in this matter since October 25 . somebody unfortunately may take the law into their hand. It is in the interest of the society that she is kept in custody. Adriaan Nel, for Koekemoer, said there was no evidence linking his client to the murder of her daughter and she was not a flight risk and she would not interfere with investigations or intimidate witnesses. She had a fixed address, she moved to Brits two months ago and rented a farm where she is paying R5000 a month. She had been at this address for the past two months and had not attempted to flee. He said even when the police called her on Thursday ( December 15), she told them she was in town and would be at the farm at 4pm and she was there when the police came to arrest her. He added that Koekemoer was the State star witness until she was arrested. She had made a statement to the police and indicated that her husband Kobus Koekemoer, kicked Poppie on the stomach the day she died. Conradie argued that Koekemoer did nothing when her husband assaulted Poppie, in Orania and now in Brits. She should have reported at the social welfare, the police in Orania or church leaders she decided not to report and her excuse is she was afraid. He told the court that he had never in his career as a prosecutor seen a three-year old assault like Poppie. Poppie van der Merwe was brutally assaulted. He told the court it was not clear what was going to happen when Koekemoer ran out of money, as she had R41,000 in the bank, meaning she could only pay R5000 rent for eight months. The case against Louisa Koekemoer was postponed to January 25, for investigation and for her to join her husband Kobus Koekemoer on the murder charge. A group of women wearing pink T-shirts filled up the court room and put poster outside the court, calling for the court not to grant Louisa bail. Justice for Poppie, no bail for Louisa rot in jail read one placard. The women punched the air with fists and hugged each other when bail was denied. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.