Seven wickets fell in an astonishing first session of the second day as South Africa seized control of the first Test by reducing Sri Lanka to 37 for three at lunch at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. After South Africa s first innings had collapsed to 286 all out, losing their last four wickets for 19 runs in 8.5 overs, Kyle Abbott and Vernon Philander then knocked over the Sri Lankan top-order to put the smiles back on the home fans faces. Also read: #TweetReport: How the Grinch stole the PE brass band A humid morning and a healthy covering of grass on the pitch was like mother s milk for the pair of opening seamers and they needed just 21 balls to strike as Dimuth Karunaratne (5) shattered his own stumps trying to drive an Abbott delivery that nipped back a bit to find the inside edge. Kusal Perera (7) came in at three and judging by the looseness of his technique during his 13-ball innings, it is way too high for him. His habit of slashing wildly outside off stump is going to result in a high percentage of edges and sure enough he was caught behind by Quinton de Kock off Philander in the seventh over. Kusal Mendis then fell to Abbott for a duck, trying to drive on the up, the ball jagging away off the seam and hitting high up on the bat before going through to wicketkeeper De Kock, who took a good diving catch. Opener Kaushal Silva was the one player to raise the standard of batsmanship on Tuesday morning as he survived the chaos around him for 65 minutes and 34 balls, reaching lunch on 12 not out. The flood of Sri Lankan wickets recalled the end of the South African innings, as they resumed on 267 for six but were all back in the changeroom within 45 minutes of the second day. Philander, having survived a chance to wicketkeeper Dinesh Chandimal after he gloved a hook off Nuwan Pradeep in the paceman s previous over, then spliced a hook to deep midwicket to be caught for 13. Suranga Lakmal then produced the sort of late away-swing that sent back four Proteas batsmen on the first day to have Keshav Maharaj caught behind for a duck, completing his first five-wicket haul in his 32nd Test. Abbott lasted just three balls and also failed to score as he was run out, De Kock calling him for a second run before realising Perera s throw from deep backward point was already on its way, and then sending the fast bowler back with little chance of survival. De Kock only added five more runs with Kagiso Rabada (0*), Pradeep, who bowled with a lot more verve on Tuesday, going through his defences with a pinpoint yorker, the in-form wicketkeeper/batsman being bowled for 37. Lakmal was the star of the attack with career-best figures of five for 63 in 27 overs, while Pradeep finished with two for 66 in 21.5 overs and left-arm spinner Rangana Herath took two for 48 in 20 overs on the first day and is probably going to play even more of a role in the second innings. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.