The South African government s decision to withdraw from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) is unconstitutional and must be invalidated, the Democratic Alliance told the High Court in Pretoria on Monday. The only way that this problem can remedied is for this court to declare that executive has acted unconstitutionally and to declare its decision invalid. Failing that, the decision to withdraw by the executive, taken without the concurrence of Parliament will remain in place and will have effect, said Advocate Stephen Budlender SC, representing the DA. Budlender told a full bench of three High Court judges presiding over the matter that parliament had adopted the Rome Statute into South African law, and therefore only the National Assembly could lead the process of withdrawing South Africa from the body. The debate in this case is not about whether there is power to withdraw [from Rome Statute], there must be. It is what the constitution implies, it s about who the implied power is conferred on. That power, we submit, is conferred on parliament and not on the executive, said Budlender. South Africa believed it was unfairly treated by the ICC when it consulted the court over the visit of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir a fugitive from ICC justice to South Africa in June last year. Pretoria asked the ICC to exempt it from its requirement to arrest Al-Bashir because it said it should enjoy immunity as a sitting head of state attending an African Union summit. But the ICC rejected this request and demanded that South Africa arrest Al-Bashir, which it did not. South Africa has complained that the ICC did not give it a fair hearing and that there was confusion within the court itself about the obligations of member states to arrest sitting heads of state of countries that are not members of the ICC, such as Al-Bashir. In October, Justice Minister Michael Masutha announced that the South African government had informed the United Nations of its intention to withdraw from the ICC. Written notice to withdraw from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court has been submitted to the secretary-general of the United Nations in accordance with article 127(1) of the Rome Statute of the ICC. The withdrawal will take effect one year after the secretary-general has received the notification, Masutha told a media briefing in Pretoria at the time. The withdrawal of South Africa from a court that it helped found, will come into effect from October 19, 2017. The South African government was found by South Africa s own Supreme Court of Appeal to have failed to uphold South African law by not arresting Al-Bashir when he was in South Africa last year.