The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) has vowed to expose the common agenda of the ANC and the DA to pursue neo-liberal policies at the expense of the poor. Numsa s re-elected general secretary, Irvin Jim, said in his secretariat report that the real reason that the union was expelled from Cosatu was because of its constant political posturing, including its call for the implementation of the Freedom Charter that promised that there shall be a national minimum wage and the abolition of the contract labour system. But instead of the ANC implementing the Freedom Charter, it came with devices such as Growth Employment and Redistribution (Gear) and the new National Development Plan that were concocted to maintain the imperialist status quo of the superexploitation of black and African labour . If the beginning of wisdom is to call things by their names, the real reason why Numsa had to be dismissed in Cosatu was its constant political position. Numsa has and continues to leave no stone unturned in exposing the common agenda of the ANC and the DA, Jim said in his 343-page secretariat report. READ MORE: Numsa president Andrew Chirwa calls Gordhan a sellout Both the ANC and DA openly refused to address the class question while they further refused to nationalise strategic minerals and address the issue of ownership and control of the economy. He said the common vision of the ANC and the DA was a consensus of being antiworking class. They argue that there is a rigid labour market in South Africa and that both trade unions and big industries had become spoilt and their power must be curtailed. Numsa, to this effect, has exposed the painful difficult reality that the ANC and DA have become the political axis of exploiting class, Jim said. According to Jim, there was no move to restructure the South African economy and address the fundamentals of ownership and control of the economy. This had resulted in the African majority remaining economically marginalised and at the bottom of the food chain. The fiery trade unionist said there was a concerted move to undo all the hard-won gains secured during apartheid. This included collective bargaining. Jim said Numsa supported President Jacob Zuma in Polokwane 2007 because they hoped he would lead the ANC and government to fight and end the neo-liberal policies, corruption, patronage and nepotism that came before and during the Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki reigns. He said Numsa initiated the call for Zuma to step down at its 2013 special national congress and that recent events vindicated the union s position. ericn@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.