1. The Benoni woman with a bizarre sponge-eating habit A woman who works in Benoni cannot go a day without enjoying a bite, or five, of her favourite snack and usually takes about a week or two to finish a whole sponge. When her mother found out she was eating sponge at the age of six, Candice Knox got a hiding and was told to stop eating the car . This did very little to stop her craving for sponge, and she continued to tear out, chew and eat sponge from underneath the car seat. Doctors have told her a lack of iron causes this strange eating habit and that she needs to take iron supplements, but these haven t helped much. She has, surprisingly, never become ill from her addiction. 2. Bizarre chicken mutilation on Ballito beach in KZN A chicken with needles inserted through its head and tied to a pole was rescued at Casuarina Beach in KwaZulu-Natal in November. It was unclear whether this was done as part of a religious ritual or animal cruelty. Ballito resident Warren Loader was doing landscaping work in Casuarina when he noticed the distressed chicken. Being an animal lover, Loader s first instinct was to help the chicken. He untied and rushed the traumatised animal to the Ballito Veterinary Clinic. Despite the chicken s traumatised state, it seemed that it would make a full recovery. 3. Man attacked by wild pig In March, a sixty-seven-year old man was attacked by a boar (wild pig) on a small holding near in Magaliesberg, north of Pretoria. Reports from the scene indicate that the pig belongs to the man s neighbour and at the time of the incident the man was trying to get the pig back to its holding when it attacked him, said Netcare 911 spokesperson Athlenda Mathe. The man was bitten several times on his body and sustained serious injuries after he was attacked the wild pig 4. Bizarre animal attacks leave men in serious condition In February, in two separate bizarre incidents, two men suffered serious injuries after being attack by animals in the Free State. According to Netcare 911 paramedics a 55-year-old man was left in critical condition after being attacked by a horse on a farm in Bethlehem. In another incident on the same day a 40-year-old man suffered serious injuries after he was attacked by an ostrich behind a petrol station in Harrismith. Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.