When you ve been travelling for a while, regardless of how delicious the local cuisine may be, you find yourself craving the joys of a good old franchise meal. Your body longs for Western familiarity and a taste that its used to. For me that s when KFC or McDonald s come into play. It doesn t matter what remote part of the world I find myself in. If there is one thing I m sure of it s that I will find a KFC or a McDonald s. While both franchises tend to offer a somewhat universal menu, it&#8217;s rather entertaining to witness the little nuances in menu changes and additions in various countries. In Germany I had to pay for each sachet of tomato sauce. It was also quite amusing to see that they favour mayonnaise on French fries instead of tomato sauce or mustard. Many people believe that McDonald s uses earthworms as a filler ingredient in their burger patties in Brazil. While this widely spread urban legend hasn t been proven true, it hasn t deterred people from tucking in. A large portion of the population in India practices Hinduism so it s no surprise that the menu has not one beef item on it. Imagine a McDonald s with burgers in just the chicken, veg or fish varieties. I didn t have a problem with it at all, but many Westerners would probably look at the cows peppered all over the streets longingly. I happened to be in Vietnam when the McDonald s franchise launched to huge fanfare just two years ago. I expected long lines, similar to the queues when Burger King launched in South Africa, but I was surprised to find that, instead, these franchises remained tourist-filled. It s just not really tasty to the Vietnamese palate, even with a McPork burger. The KFC in Vietnam seems to be making a more roaring trade. The power of fried chicken is universal, it seems. They have perfectly tailored their menu to this audience, with the most popular meal being two pieces of fried chicken, a mountain of rice and clear vegetable soup. It sounds clich d, but Asians really do love their rice. At the KFC in Thailand you can get rice bowls instead of the usual Zinger or mash and gravy fair. The taste of these bowls are also decidedly Thai, with the choice of flavours between sweet chilli sauce and tomato sauce as a condiment. It would come as no surprise then that even the Nando s franchises outside of South Africa are so different to ones back home. None of those measly portions that people have been complaining about back home is prevalent in Singapore or Malaysia. A meal set consists of the option of a piece of chicken, burger or pita and then you can choose any two sides (and they re so hearty!). To be honest, I very much prefer this option to the boring old chips or wedges we have at home. Sometimes I want wedges and coleslaw. Or some veg. Or some corn. Or just a roll. It makes far more sense. So, while some intrepid travellers will pull up their noses at the idea of visiting a franchise, I always find it very interesting. In fact, I&#8217;m enjoying a salmon burger from McDonald s as I write this. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.