Government is ready to pay compensation for the victims of the August 2012 violence at Lonmin s platinum mine at Marikana near Rustenburg in North West, the presidency said on Sunday. ALSO READ: Blade slams Zuma, says a man who can be bought not fit to lead SA Regarding the compensation for the Marikana victims, government is ready to pay, said a statement issued by the presidency on steps taken by government departments to implement the Farlam Commission of Inquiry s recommendations. The SAPS [South African Police Service] has instructed its attorneys to make offers of payments in full settlement of claims for the claims where quantification were complete and are not under criminal investigation. These quantified claims that could be carried forward included: The majority of the loss of support claims in favour of the deceased; The 275 unlawful arrest and detention claims were quantified, completed, and ready for settlement. Only one of the claimants had charges pending, and the outcome was still awaited. Personal injury claims One action comprising personal injury claims in respect of 275 individuals and 81 separate actions relating to individual personal injury claims. The personal injury claims are still delayed by the fact that the plaintiff attorney is still considering to agree on one set of medical experts, which will be efficient both for the process and with regard to costs, the statement said. ALSO READ: Nearly 80% of the richest 200 in SA are white men The Farlam Commission chaired by retired Judge Ian Farlam was appointed on August 26, 2012 to probe the deaths of 44 people during an illegal, violent strike at Lonmin s Marikana mine earlier that month. On August 16, 34 people, mostly mineworkers, were shot dead by police. In the preceding week, another 10 people were killed, including two police officers and two Lonmin security guards. The commission s report and recommendations were released to the public in June 2015. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.