Poaching is funding global terrorism and the world needs to know what is going on because awareness isn t what it should be. That s according to Carl Thornton, founder of Pit-Track, a NGO canine anti-poaching unit (APU) engaged in protecting the highly sought-after and critically endangered rhino. The global illegal wildlife trade was estimated to be worth between $20 billion and $25 billion (R275 billion to R340 billion) annually by the United Nations Environment Programme. Drew Abrahamson and her team at Captured In Africa Foundation, who are working closely with a number of non-profit organisations tackling wildlife conservation including Pit-Track K9 Conservation and Anti-Poaching Unit, attended the hand-over of anti-poaching equipment sponsored by Credit Guarantee to the team at Pit-Track. We re finding in the field that poachers are ex-military; they are professionals, Thornton said. They come highly armed with the latest in military equipment, night vision and thermal equipment. They can see us lying in ambush from 2km away. Poachers are also doubling up on units, if we send two, they send four and so on. ALSO READ: Tito Mboweni falls victim to ATM scammers Thornton noted the Kruger National Park the most heavily attacked national reserve was unique because it bordered Mozambique, from where three-man details entered the park, travelling light with mostly old hunting rifles, and then fed the horn to a middle man, who then sent the horn from Maputo harbour to Vietnam. It s not been our experience in the North West province. As soon as they are placed into a boma, they hit it like they would hit a bank. They overpower the security and shoot all the animals. The last boma attack he was aware of was launched by eight poachers, six of whom had AK47s and one with a Dragunov sniping rifle. Another had a .357 side arm and a chainsaw. We ve had helicopter attacks where they overdose animals and then simply decapitate the rhino and fly off with the head before anyone can react. Last year, the International Conservation Caucus noted organised criminal syndicates and terrorist groups are increasingly involved, arming poachers and using the wildlife trade to fund their activities . The slaughter and trade in African wildlife is creating instability, threatening national security, and undermining the foundations of economic development. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.