The fortunes of Africa&#8217;s leading players in Europe&#8217;s top leagues were distinctly up-and-down. Here is how they performed at the weekend. YAYA TOURE (Manchester City) The Ivory Coast midfielder endured a frustrating end to a bad week as City were beaten 3-1 by title rivals Chelsea. Toure came on as a 76th-minute substitute with City trailing 2-1 and was unable to stop leaders Chelsea securing a victory that moved them four points clear of Pep Guardiola s team. As if that wasn t bad enough, police confirmed that Toure had been charged with drink driving after being spotted with his alcohol level above the legal limit while driving in east London last week. RIYAD MAHREZ (Leicester) The Algeria winger was hauled off after 73 minutes of Leicester s dismal 2-1 defeat at lowly Sunderland. Reigning Premier League Players Player of the Year Mahrez has just one assist and three league goals to his name this term and Leicester boss Claudio Ranieri had threatened to drop him if he didn t improve soon. But Mahrez showed no signs of stepping up his game. VICTOR ANICHEBE (Sunderland) The Nigeria striker was a constant danger to Leicester as Sunderland climbed off the bottom of the table with a 2-1 win at the Stadium of Light. Former Everton star Anichebe used to his pace and power to unsettle the Leicester defence and, although he didn t score, the 28-year-old was a major factor in Sunderland s third win in their last four league games. SADIO MANE (Liverpool) The Senegal winger gave an excellent individual performance at Bournemouth, but it wasn t enough to stop Liverpool crashing to an incredible 4-3 defeat. Mane scored Liverpool s opening goal in the 20th minute with a cool finish from Emre Can s pass. He then played a role in Liverpool s second goal by winning possession in midfield before Divock Origi s strike. Mane wasn t finished and his superb run and cross gave Can the opportunity to score Liverpool s third in the 64th minute. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang can&#8217;t stop finding the net. Photo: Patrik Stollarz/AFP. PIERRE-EMERICK AUBAMEYANG (Borussia Dortmund) The Gabon striker netted twice in Dortmund s 4-1 win at home to Borussia Moenchengladbach, which left him as the Bundesliga s top scorer with 15 goals this season. After Gladbach took an early lead, Auba showed great finishing to volley home a seventh-minute equaliser after a deft flick from Marco Reus. Reus and Dembele then set up Aubameyang for his second on 68 minutes to cap an outstanding display from Dortmund s star-studded attack. SALOMON KALOU (Hertha Berlin) The Ivory Coast striker netted a 91st-minute penalty to seal Hertha Berlin s 3-2 comeback win at 10-man Wolfsburg to keep his side third. CLINTON NJIE (Marseille) The Cameroon forward swept home Marseille s third goal in stoppage time in a 3-0 victory at home to Nancy. Njie, 23, curled in a first-time effort from the edge of the area for his second goal since joining on loan from Tottenham Hotspur.