On December 11, a handsome young man named Yanga Jadezweni, who had a dashing smile, was killed in an alleyway near his home in Khayelitsha. Investigations are under way to ascertain reasons for the murder, but his brutal death has left many scarred. His family lost a son whose life was transformed in the short time since he joined the Indoni Dance, Arts and Leadership Academy. Recently returned from Australia with his fellow dance-mates, Yanga s dancing and singing ability brought audiences to their feet. He had the world at his feet and, with Indoni, he was forging a path different to the youth who slayed him. Indoni is reeling with unmitigated grief. Battered by trauma, the dance group is still recovering from the stabbing of another member, currently in hospital, a few weeks ago. One of the directors, Balu Nivison, is inconsolable: The tragic loss of Yanga has left us devastated. His precious life cut short; hopes and dreams shattered. Yanga was a talented young man destined for great things. This multiaward-winning academy, which has taken in 24 young, unemployed men and women, has invested a lot of energy and creativity into developing their skills to make them employable. Some have subsequently joined other more advanced groups upon graduating; others hope to start dance schools in their local communities. When I evaluated this project last year, I was blown away by the energy of these aspirant artists and marvelled at their love for dance translated into a constant fixing of the damaged floors they were dancing on while others continued to dance. No obstacle was too great for their dreams. Their teachers, Sbonakaliso Ndaba, Jenny Papendorp and Nivison, are equally indefatigable. While Indoni s friends and partners here and in Australia are mourning the loss of this amazing young man, may I appeal to government, faith-based communities, civil society, parents and youth who oppose such criminal behaviour to fight for the arrest and prosecutions of the suspects. We cannot allow the dreams of our disadvantaged youth to be destroyed by the very young people Indoni tries to transform. We appeal to Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille, Premier Helen Zille, and MEC Anton Bredell to provide these young people with a safe venue from which they can develop their talents. It is a shame that Australia affirmed this dance group generously with open arms and financial support when South Africa cannot even secure a venue for them to practice when their popularity is growing exponentially locally and abroad. One suspect may have been nabbed, but we pray that the accomplice will also be rapidly apprehended and made to pay for this reprehensible crime. Around the same time of Yanga s death, University of Stellenbosch student Robyn Pearce lost her young life due to a heartless murder in her mother s flat in Sea Point. Life in South Africa is far too cheap. We cannot allow such heinous crimes that rob families and communities of their loved ones to continue.