Reconciliation Day has come and gone. As has become the norm in our recent history, no genuine events marked a day whose significance is lost to a lot of present-day South Africans. In fact, the day has become a sore point for most: it is not uncommon for one to hear questions like: Reconcile for what? , How do you reconcile with people who refuse to acknowledge past injustices? and, Why is it that only one side is making all the sacrifices when it comes to reconciliation? The day has come to be seen as a mockery of their pains and sufferings by the majority of South Africans. Yet, the founders of our beautiful constitution intended for it to have the opposite effect. There was a genuine belief that given the violent history our country has endured to get to where it is, a day was needed on our national calendar when all sides involved would reflect on their role in the conflict and the amount of harm and damage it had inflicted on our collective psyche as a people. But the basis of reconciliation would be genuine acknowledgment of the sufferings the past system of governance had inflicted on the majority in this country. Not only that, but to also acknowledge that the chosen course of redress has been hopelessly inadequate thus far. There is no point in continuing to gloss over what appear to be genuine feelings of dissatisfaction on the real meaning of Reconciliation Day if we have any real hope of moving project South Africa forward. Reconciliation can only be based on real forgiveness. This forgiveness cannot be coerced out of anyone, it has to come from a place in the heart of every South African who acknowledges that our past is indeed a painful one. The refrain of how can you forgive people who refuse to acknowledge their complicity in your oppression needs to be faced head-on if the reconciliation project is to have any kind of real, lasting meaning. We can continue to bury our heads in the sand about our history, ignoring that there is a section of the population that wants to celebrate the day as Dingane s Day, a day in which two centuries ago the Battle of Blood River was waged and thousands of Zulu lives were lost. Or that another section wants to remember the day as that of the Vow, a day in which Afrikaner superior gun power served to repel a significantly larger Zulu army. Worse still, there are those who would want to see the day as a chance to celebrate the formation of the ANC s military arm, Umkhonto we Sizwe in 1961. Reconciliation Day will only begin to have meaning when all those events are seen by all South Africans, not just some, as a part of one continuum. One project that was aimed at bringing justice to this country. But that will not happen while we continue to talk past each other. Our leaders need to be brave and bold enough to say let s put an end to this constant derision of such a significant day in our history and work towards real reconciliation. The kind based on efforts to ring real peace based on addressing past injustices. Sydney Majoko. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.