 Today saying no is the most beautiful and glorious form of politics. Whoever doesn t understand that can go screw themselves. This could have been Donald Trump speaking before the US election two weeks ago, or Boris Johnson during the Brexit campaign in Britain last June. But it was actually Beppe Grillo, founder and leader of Italy s populist Five Star Movement. Grillo unhesitatingly compares his movement to Trumpismo in the United States, and the Five Star Movement (M5S) is currently running neck-and-neck with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi s Democratic Party in the opinion polls. Moreover, if Renzi loses the referendum on changing the Italian constitution that took place yesterday, there may be an election in Italy quite soon. Matteo Renzi wanted to replace the elected Senate with a smaller appointed body and make other changes to streamline the process of passing laws in Italy. He got his proposal through both houses of parliament last April but with such a slim majority that the results had to be confirmed by a referendum. At the time Renzi was confident he would win it. But that was before the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom and before the rise of Donald Trump in the United States put wind in the sails of the Five Star Movement. Now that the M5S s Io Dico No (I Say No) campaign is drawing huge crowds as it tours Italian cities, the final opinion polls before the vote (which was yesterday) gave the No a five-point lead. As the polls began to turn against his constitutional reforms, Renzi warned that he would resign if the vote went against them. But all that it did, was to turn it into a referendum on his own popularity, which is turning out to be considerably less than he imagined. And if M5S comes to power, it is pledged to hold another referendum this time on pulling Italy out of the euro single currency . At the moment, a large majority of Italians still want to keep the euro, but that could change. Italian cities don t look as devastated as the US Rust Belt, but the same processes that brought Donald Trump to the presidency have been at work in Italy. Average family income is still less than it was before the 2008 crash, and unemployment among the young is 40%. An estimated quarter of Italian industry has closed down in the past decade, and the country is staggering under the burden of a public debt that amounts to 132% of GDP. If uncertainty about the euro crashes Italy s economy (the third-largest economy in the Eurozone), then all 19 countries that use the euro about 340 million people are in deep trouble. In theory, it s a long road from a no in yesterday s constitutional referendum to an M5S government, and a referendum on the euro. If Renzi resigns, and if no other combination of parties in parliament can form a government (probably not), there would be an election. But then M5S would have to win a majority, which is a long way from its current 30% support. In practice, it might be a short road. Many Italians are angry and want to punish the elites . If both M5S and the right-wing Lega Nord did well in the election, they might be able to form a coalition government and then the fat would be in the fire.