Contrary to prevailing wisdom, 2016 has not been an annus horribilis. Awful things happened but not everything was bad. There are reasons to be optimistic. Was this the year the music died? We lost Leonard Cohen, David Bowie, George Michael, and Prince. Locally we mourned Mandoza and Sfiso Ncwane. But their music lives on. Other celebrities who shuffled off this mortal coil include boxer Muhammad Ali, Harper Lee, who wrote To Kill a Mockingbird, and Alan Rickman, who played Severus Snape in the Harry Potter films. And we said adios to Fidel Castro. This incomplete list may seem disproportionately tragic to some, yet each year celebrities die. It would be difficult to prove 2016 was the worst. South African sports fans can look back on a good haul of Olympic medals, and great cricket achievements, even if rugby and soccer let us down &#8230; again. There were terror attacks in parts of the world, and conflicts in Syria and elsewhere but none of these is necessarily worse than in previous years. Electorates defied predictions by opting for Brexit and sending Donald Trump to the White House. These outcomes have created uncertainty, exacerbated by Europe s lack of policy clarity and Trump s unpredictability. Some commentators list Brexit and Trump as reasons to label 2016 an annus horribilis. That assumes everything about Brexit and Trump will be negative. Such assumptions are premature. Doomsayers point to South Africa s low economic growth, high unemployment and the threat of downgrades by ratings agencies. That is indeed a dismal picture. However, on the flip side, South Africa has managed to avoid the downgrades that seemed inevitable last December when President Jacob Zuma changed finance ministers in quick succession. Although Zuma remains a liability, events surrounding him provide hope. In 2016 he suffered irreparable damage and democracy was boosted. The Constitutional Court found he had failed to uphold the Constitution. A separate court process moved decisively forward to ensure Zuma faces the 783 counts of fraud and corruption he has been evading. The legal net is also tightening in other ways. The most encouraging development of 2016 has been the growing awareness of how much corruption is being perpetrated by the Zuma-Gupta network. Spin-off from former public protector Thuli Madonsela s reports on Nkandla, Hlaudi Motsoeneng and state capture has become part of the national consciousness. Coupled with the loss of three big metros in the local government elections, this has made Zuma more vulnerable. Opposition is growing within the tripartite alliance and the ANC itself. ANC stalwarts and some MK veterans have been joined by members of the party s national executive committee and even cabinet ministers in speaking out against Zuma. It was exhilarating to watch on TV as MPs exposed the uselessness of Zuma s SABC flunkies. In 2016, for the first time, anti-Zuma sentiment became an unstoppable tsunami. If the ANC decides he must stay until the end of his term, other parties will benefit enormously in the 2019 elections. When the ANC is bundled out of power, we can look back and say most of the damage was done in 2016. What a good year that was.