Exhausted? You probably are after a long year. But before embarking on a holiday road trip, make sure you rest up because according to a recent report, the risk of you being involved in a car accident spikes with every hour of lost sleep. The report, released this month by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, states that the less sleep the person behind the wheel gets, the higher the accident rate. For example, motorists in the study who got only four or five hours sleep had four times the accident rate also seen among drunk drivers. Recent statistics from one of South Africa s busiest highways, the N3, show that driver fatigue is a serious concern. According to N3TC s commercial manager, Con Roux: Of the 915 crashes recorded between Heidelberg and Cedera by the N3TC over the past 11 months since January, 76.7% of the accidents occurred in clear weather and over a third (381) involved passenger cars. Of these 915 crashes, 224 crashes were vehicles rolling on a straight road, and 203 just veered off the tarmac. This suggests fatigue and or inattention caused most of the accidents on the N3. The AAA study also found that drivers who caused the accidents were more than 10 times likely to have slept for less than four hours, and that drivers who slept even as little as one hour less than the amount they would normally sleep during a 24-hour period, had significantly increased accident rates. Previous research by the AAA Foundation had found that about 20% of fatal accidents in the US involve a drowsy driver. Locally, statistics are just as severe. The bottom line is that one in five fatal accidents could be avoided when people get sufficient rest. Below are tips for avoiding disaster: Get at least seven hours of quality sleep before leaving on your journey. Most accidents caused by a sleep-deprived driver occur between midnight and 6am, the natural time for sleep. If you plan on driving during these hours, and if you start yawning, begin to lose concentration or if you have trouble keeping your eyes open, take a break. Do not continue driving until you feel refreshed and awake. Energy drinks or caffeine can help revive tired drivers. But for regular coffee drinkers it can have the opposite effect and cause fatigue and impaired coordination. A study conducted by the Loughborough Sleep Research Centre concluded that contrary to popular belief, loud music, chewing gum, fresh air or a good stretch will not help relieve tiredness while driving. Do not rely on these myths to keep you awake! When driving long distance, plan your trip to incorporate a 20-minute break every two hours. There are plenty of petrol station rest stops along major routes. Share the driving with another responsible driver. Wear good quality sunglasses to avoid your eyes getting tired. Don t underestimate the impact fatigue has on your driving ability. Trying to push through it could cost you more than a car, so make a good night s sleep a priority for your road trip. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.