Vernon Philander did not want to say it himself, but he looked at the height of his powers once again on the second day of the first Test against Sri Lanka at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. Philander was the spearhead of the South Africa attack, with three for 35, as they reduced Sri Lanka to 181 for seven, still 105 runs behind on first innings with just three wickets remaining. Also read: #TweetReport: Quinton s cock(s)-ups On an admittedly tailor-made pitch, Philander delivered 16 superb overs of immaculate line-and-length seam, with a magnificent seam position throughout, trapping Kaushal Silva (16) and Dinesh Chandimal (28) lbw and having Kusal Perera (7) caught behind. You don t change a winning formula I guess. The pitch asked us to be patient even though there was a lot in it, draw the batsmen across and then maybe go for the inswinger, but I was looking more for the outside edge and caught behind to be honest. &#8220;If you string some good overs together on this pitch then you will get a few wickets and it was always tough to score on. It gave me a bit to work with and I m in a good space after Christmas! Philander said. The 31-year-old was brilliantly supported by Kyle Abbott, who took two for 49 in 18 overs, but Kagiso Rabada only fired in fits and starts, finishing the day with one for 63 in 13 overs. Also read: Sri Lankan top order fails as Proteas edge ahead I think the pitch suited me and Kyle a bit better, with his extra pace, KG makes it easier to score. We also bowl a touch fuller, whereas KG s natural length is a bit shorter, Philander said. The man who now has 145 Test wickets at an average of exactly 22 says a good first-innings lead will be very handy for the Proteas. I think any lead of 80+ will stand us in good stead going into the third innings, but there s still a lot of cricket to be played. There are a few divots in the pitch and it has sped up a bit, so the hard new ball is going to be key and there s still a bit of nip out there, Philander said. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 