Leader of the United Democratic Movement Bantu Holomisa joined others on social media on Saturday to pour scorn on President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s legal challenge against the State of Capture report. One of the main points Zuma is unhappy with is that former public protector Thuli Madonsela recommended that the chief justice, Mogoeng Mogoeng, be entrusted with the task of picking the person who would oversee a judicial inquiry into allegations of state capture, particularly those against Zuma&#8217;s friends the Gupta family, and Zuma himself. Zuma, however, lodged court papers saying that he believes it should be his constitutional prerogative to appoint the commission&#8217;s leader. Holomisa wrote that Zuma, &#8220;the main suspect&#8221; was demanding that he &#8220;personally appoints a commission to investigate himself. Joke!&#8221; #StateCaptureInquiry: The main suspect Zuma goes to court 2 demand that he personally appoints a Commission to investigate himself. Joke! &mdash; Bantu Holomisa (@BantuHolomisa) December 3, 2016 Zuma has asked the High Court in Pretoria to review and set aside the remedial action recommendations in the public protector s State of Capture report. Zuma filed an affidavit on Friday, in which he questions Madonsela s recommendation in the report that he establish a commission of inquiry but that it be headed by a judge selected by Mogoeng. He also wants the court to refer the report back to new Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane for further investigation. He contends that the recommendation is inconsistent with the rule of law, the Constitution, and breaches the separation of powers principle. According to the court papers, he argues that the decision to establish a commission of inquiry and who will head it is his prerogative. The report, released shortly before Madonsela left office at the end of October, includes details of an alleged improper relationship between Zuma and the wealthy, politically connected Gupta family. It recommends, among other things, that these, and other allegations, be investigated by a judicial commission of inquiry to be headed by a judge appointed by Mogoeng. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.