The ancestors have turned against the African National Congress, mourners at former Rustenburg councillor and freedom fighter Rocky Malebana-Metsing s memorial heard on Thursday. The ancestors have turned their back on the ANC. The trouble in the ANC is clear indication that God and the gods have turned against the ANC, said Abinaar Matlhako, Economic Freedom Fighters councillor in Rustenburg. The ANC owes Rocky Malebana-Metsing an apology. The municipality stopped his salary from June until August, now in November, you come here and tell us that Rocky was a great man, you are telling us a lie. The municipality docked his salary unlawfully. Please pay back Rocky s money and other councillors, he said. Malebana-Metsing, 67, died on November 23 in Rustenburg. He was removed from his position as a member of the mayoral committee in Rustenburg after refusing to give the North West provincial government R12 million to provide water in Majakaneng, near Brits, said former Ngaka Modiri Molema Mayor Themba Gwabeni. The area of Majakaneng is under Madibeng. Rocky refused to give the money because the area was not under the jurisdiction of Rustenburg he was removed for that reason, Gwabeni said. He said the provincial government went to Majakaneng and promised resident to provide them with water and build road, while there was no money. The province wanted Rustenburg to pay and Rocky refused In 1988, Malebana-Metsing, who at the time was the leader of the Progressive People s Party, led a coup to oust Lucas Mangope, the then president of the Bophuthatswana homeland. He went into exile after the failed coup and joined the ANC. In December 1991, he was elected into the National Executive Committee of the ANC after the 1994 elections and was appointed MEC for agriculture in North West province, but he resigned from the ANC and consequently lost his seat on May 16, 1995. In 2006, he made his comeback into mainstream politics. He was elected into the Rustenburg local municipality, where he held several strategic positions. Malebana-Metsing left the ANC in June this year and joined the Forum 4 Service Delivery, and was Forum 4 Service Delivery mayoral candidate for Rustenburg. He lost to Mpho Khunou by three votes. ANC lambasted at Malebana-Metsing s memorial service Meanwhile, Maleho Gaonakala, chairperson of the SA Communist Party in the BG Molewa district, castigated the ANC at the memorial service. There is no ANC, you are mobilising thugs. You have introduced gatekeeping, said Gaonakala. He said the ANC in the North West province hated the Bojanala region because the region fought the provincial leadership s attempts to influence the list of councillors leading to the August municipal election. This is the only region that resisted that influence and now it has been disbanded under the pretext that regional executive members are resigning. He said the ANC was acting like hypocrites in claiming to love Malebana-Metsing in his death, while the ruling party did not pay his salary as an ANC councillor from June leading to the August municipal election. Comrade Rocky was not your hero, you tried to destroy him, he said. -African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.