South Africa were ruthlessly efficient on the third day of the first Test against Sri Lanka in Port Elizabeth, so much so that in metaphorical terms there was Sri Lankan blood all over the St George s Park outfield on Wednesday. The South African new-ball bowlers, Vernon Philander and Kyle Abbott, effected a quick kill when it came to the Sri Lankan first innings, dismissing them for 205 for a first-innings lead of 81. Also read: #TweetReport: Hashim Amla&#8217;s dodgy honour By stumps that had been increased to an overwhelming 432 and it was not exactly eked out either, the runs flowing at a rate of 4.38 to the over. South Africa reached 351 for five in their second innings, meaning Sri Lanka are going to have to produce the highest ever fourth innings total to win a Test or bat through the better part of two days to secure a draw in the opening match of the three-game series. After openers Stephen Cook and Dean Elgar landed themselves a place in the record books as their second century stand of the match put South Africa in complete control, captain Faf du Plessis (41*) and Quinton de Kock (42*) added 74 for the sixth wicket in less than an hour to ensure the lead passed 400. &nbsp; Cook eventually fell shortly before 5pm, caught at the wicket off Dushmantha Chameera as he tried to run the ball down to third man, for 117, an innings that once again proved his ability at this level. The 34-year-old has been through the school of hard knocks and he survived a scratchy start and two rain delays, before flourishing in the afternoon, collecting 11 fours as he batted for 251 minutes and faced 178 deliveries, taking his Test average to 47.91. While Cook posted his third Test century and his second in successive matches, Hashim Amla found some form and had breezed to 48 off just 53 balls when he was dismissed on the stroke of tea. Having put on 104 for the first wicket in testing conditions on the first morning, Cook and Elgar posted 116 together on Wednesday, just the 10th time in Test history that the same opening pair have enjoyed century stands in both innings of the same game. It is the first time since the famous Timeless Test against England in Durban in 1938/39 that South Africa s first wicket has added more than a hundred in both innings, Pieter van der Bijl, father of fast bowling great Vintcent, partnering with Alan Melville in the first innings and Bruce Mitchell in the second. Bob Catterall and Mitchell were the only other South African pair to achieve the feat, against England in Birmingham in 1929. Elgar would be the sixth victim in the match of fast bowler Suranga Lakmal, looping a cramped pull to wide mid-on after he had scored 52 off 102 deliveries. Earlier, Philander brought a swift end to the Sri Lankan first innings before Elgar and Cook once again showed good judgement in taking South Africa through to 39 without loss at lunch. Philander finished with five for 45 in 20 outstanding overs as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 205. Sri Lanka, replying to South Africa s first innings of 286, had resumed on 181 for seven on Wednesday morning and Philander struck with his first ball and took two wickets in an inspired first over of the day. His first delivery was in the perfect place, drawing De Silva half-forward before shaping away beautifully, the promising 25-year-old edging it into the gloves of wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock. De Silva had been in for two hours in scoring 43. The last ball of the over then saw Lakmal (4) plop a drive, after he was beaten by late movement, into the hands of Abbott at mid-on, giving Philander his 11th five-wicket haul in his 38th Test. The final wicket fell to the admirable Abbott, who finished with three for 63 in 21.5 overs, as Chameera was caught in the slips for 19, his career-best score. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 