Inmates throughout KwaZulu-Natal prisons have been trained as caregivers to assist their HIV positive peers take part in a massive ARV rollout programme. Speaking at the launch of the Central Chronic Medication Dispensing and Distribution (CCMDD) programme on Friday at Westville Prison, provincial health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said the programme would ensure better coordinating and dispensing of chronic medications for HIV, diabetes, asthma, cancer and others. This programme is ideal because the inmates are confined so there is minimal risk of non-adherence, he said. Dhlomo said 4,000 HIV positive inmates from the province s 41 correctional facilities would benefit from the programme, which would also assist with eradication of stigma associated with HIV because the ARVs would be packaged similarly to other chronic medication. KZN s prisons have 7,741 known HIV positive offenders, with 3,855 already on treatment. The CCMDD programme will help enrol the remaining nearly 4000 HIV-positive inmates on ART, said Dhlomo. Under the new programme, pharmacies at correctional facilities in Pietermaritzburg and Durban will coordinate the collation of prescriptions from various correctional facilities in the province and submit those prescriptions to the service provider, he said. ALSO READ: AfriForum, Solidarity get high court klap over Afrikaans Dhlomo said that the initiative would benefit the inmates and broader society. The vast majority of people committed to prison eventually return to the wider society. Therefore any diseases contracted in prison, or any medical conditions made worse by conditions of confinement, become issues of public health for the wider community when people are released. Reducing the transmission of HIV in prisons is an important step in reducing the spread of infection, including TB in broader society. Inmate Jabulani Gumede, who was the MC at the event, reminded DOH and Correctional Services staff at the event that inmates were not just offenders. We must think of offenders as human beings, he said. All 50 inmates who had undergone DoH caregiver training were present during Dhlomo s address. They had been trained in palliative care, home-based support, first-aid and other basics of nursing. Giving feedback on the training he received, inmate Thabo Kothle said that since being in prison, he realised his fellow inmates were ignorant when it came to HIV and AIDS. The spirit of Ubuntu tells me I must avail myself to help others, he said, and reminded fellow inmates that they were getting the best medication money can buy . African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.