The messages doing the rounds on Whatsapp groups and Facebook claiming that kidnapping syndicates are been operating at local shopping centres are untrue, report police. One message claims there was an attempted child kidnapping at Gateway Theatre of Shopping and another claims a little girl was photographed at the Pavilion Shopping Centre, reports the North Coast Courier. A third message surfaced on Wednesday saying a mom was stopped on the M4 and warned by the police to not go near any shopping centers with the children as there is a syndicate that is trying to kidnap children . The messages are causing major panic among parents with young children and are spreading like wildfire. Pavilion marketing manager Julie-Anne Zuma said the message was a hoax and not true. No children have been kidnapped or photographed at the Pavilion, she said. Durban North police spokesperson, Captain Raymond Deokaran said police have spoken to Gateway security and the managers and there are no records relating to the rumours. These messages are a hoax. However, despite these messages being a hoax, parents should hold their young children s hands in shopping centres during the busy festive season and not lose sight of them. Umhlali police s Vinny Pillay said there have been no reports of kidnapping or of children being photographed and there are no concerns of kidnapping syndicates operating at shopping centres in the Ballito area. Message 1: Yesterday at Gateway a Lady was shopping and had her 1yr old son in the Trolley next to her. She was picking something from the shelf and when she turned around her son was gone. She rushed to Security and they saw the Kidnappers on camera on the lower parking level. Security apprehended the suspects as they were getting into their vehicle. Police were called and the 6 Bungledshi men were arrested. These is the same crew that managed to escape from Pavilion 2 weeks ago. KINDLY INFORM ALL. This message follows a previous claim that a mother and her daughter (4) were followed by a group of men at the Pavilion Shopping Centre. Message 2: Message 3: Hi everyone my sister has just been stopped on the M4. There is major road blocks. Police told her to please not go near any shopping centers with the children as there is a syndicate that is trying to kidnap children. They are trying to catch them. They have only caught one guy. Please spread the word. This message is direct from me not copied and pasted. This comes from our school group Caxton News Service