Liberal political values let s not speak of liberalism , an expletive to both the left and the right are under threat. The ideologically macho, be they Stalinists or Thatcherites, have always rejected liberal markers such as tolerance, inclusiveness and fair play as naive. Theirs is the politics of righteous wrath, of stigmatising, delegitimising, and intimidating. On the nominal left, in SA, this is the modus operandi of the EFF. On the right, in the US, it is that of Donald Trump s incarnation of the Republican Party. This is the politics of Julius Malema s teeter-totter toying with violence, saying that the EFF is not yet going to call for the extermination of whites. It s the politics of Republicans, jeering and jostling journalists, and of Trump stoking the fears of Latinos and Muslims. This is unsurprising. Populism is not an ideology based on a belief system, but is simply a path to power. It s a strategy to ignite resentment, fan it with fear and then incinerate your opponents in its flame. There is only one way to counter populism without resorting to equally destructive counter-tides of political hysteria. It is through rational persuasion, based on a modicum of civility, no matter how much you loathe your opponents. Such an approach, one based on liberal concepts, is unfortunately being eroded from within, by those who once championed it. In the US, a tipping point has been the Democratic Party s thrashing at the hands of a man whom the smug chattering classes who wore their political tolerance on their sleeves as a badge of pride abhor Trump as a d class thug. Now it transpires that their own political tolerance is superficial. Traumatised at losing a presidential election they thought was in the bag, they are proving to be no less vicious in defeat than Trump had assured them he would be, should he lose. Controversial former SA newspaper columnist Jani Allan, now living in the US, has experienced it first-hand what she calls the political bullying of self-proclaimed liberals. Writing on BizNews, she recounts venomous public attacks, Facebook defriendings, and character assassination . They cannot see, she writes, that there is no difference between [their] brand of bigotry and the pro-Trump bigotry [they] find so repulsive . A similar vein of intolerance exists in the UK. There, 52% of voters ignored the liberal elite s advice and voted to exit the EU. Subsequently, they have been castigated as inherently racist, nationalist-verging-on-fascist idiots. In SA, liberal values have never been particularly valued. That said, liberal precepts eventually birthed the DA. And, for all its revolutionary rhetoric, it exists in the ANC. The retreat of liberal beliefs to the degree that they were part of the discourse of our own chattering class, was not triggered by a loss of political power, but a loss of moral courage. Tolerance, respect, empathy and willingness to compromise are not just political nice-to-haves, to be jettisoned when they don t suit us. These values are essential to a vibrant constitutional democracy. Those who have endured being excoriated as liberals have a particular responsibility not to betray them. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.