In real-life Survivor, thick-skinned competitors don t quit even when the tribe has spoken. Consider President Jacob Zuma and the SABC s Hlaudi Motsoeneng. How many legal decisions have gone against these two? Ordinary mortals, those with a conscience, would have walked away in shame long ago. But not this pair. They outwit, outlast and outplay because they think they can do no wrong. Both believe they are God s gift to the nation. Each said so in recent weeks. On Sunday night, Zuma told an ANC Youth League meeting he was a political genius who liberated the country, and led the ANC political school on. But Motsoeneng s delusions may be worse than Zuma s. You ve heard the phrase public intellectual ? Well Hlaudi, who scorns education, is a public delusional. He recently compared himself to Jesus outside court. When you read the Bible, old people didn t believe that Jesus Christ was there to save them, Motsoeneng said. I m here to save South Africa and I have already demonstrated that I can save South Africa. Once upon a time, that would have been called blasphemy. But this self-proclaimed messiah has Faith (Muthambi) and Father Jacob to protect him. The Motsoeneng ego was in bloom last week, when staffers were compelled to delay a prime time news bulletin by seven minutes in order for viewers to hear a song praising the cloud cuckoo land ex-COO. ALSO READ: Are we living in a post-truth world? Such self-promotion on a public broadcast channel at the expense of news smacks of a Mugabe-style banana republic. Sung by an obscure Lesotho group, the lyrics of Motsoeneng s praise song include: Leave him. Hlaudi wants African music to grow. We thank God for Hlaudi Motsoeneng. May God protect him for us. We love him. Loony tunes. This week, the tribe has been speaking loudly about Motsoeneng. But he seems deaf to the clamour. Monday should have marked the end of the road for him. The Western Cape High Court declared his recent appointment as group executive of corporate affairs irrational and unlawful . The judge said Motsoeneng should not have any position at the SABC right now. Lawyers were being polite when describing him as an unethical, manipulative fraudster who had destroyed any semblance of good corporate governance at the SABC . After the court ruling, the parliamentary inquiry on the SABC board s capacity to hold office gave the public a glimpse into just how destructive Motsoeneng had been. Journalists and staffers queued to tell MPs how Motsoeneng had ruled with an iron fist, ignoring editorial principles, labour law and business ethics. It s unclear why the Gupta connections came as a surprise. But it was refreshing to hear that even SABC journalists realised the funding of televised The New Age business breakfasts was skewed to direct public money toward the Saxonwold family business. Clearly the courts, parliament, media and the public want Motsoeneng to go. The tribe has indeed spoken. In the TV show, the torch of the departing contestant is snuffed out. In Motsoeneng s case, that won t be necessary because there s no light to be extinguished. DA city councillor for Joburg Martin Williams For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.