The Bunny Park in Benoni will be empty of animals for a few months next year after work to revamp the facility kicks in, reports the Benoni City Times. Several upgrades are planned for the area early next year, during which time the park s inhabitants, except the bunnies, will be moved to President Park in Springs. ALSO READ: Benoni Bunny Park legal battle settled on refurbishment Plans for the Bunny Park were discussed at a recent meeting between representatives of the Save the Bunny Park Animals group, the metro and Ward 27 councillor Jacques Meiring. According to Meiring, a budget of R10 million from the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality (EMM) for the facility has been divided into two phases. Phase One will take three to four months, starting in January 2017, and Phase Two will commence on July 1, 2017, in the next financial year, he said. Once construction begins at the Bunny Park, the animals will be moved to President Park. According to Tania Forrest-Smith, founder of the Save the Bunny Park Animals group and Ward 27 committee member for the environmental portfolio, they will continue feeding at the temporary location in Springs. Our group will continue to feed at President Park while the animals are there, she said. Meiring said there was no public entry to the Springs park. Forrest-Smith added the relocation of the animals would only take place when the shelters at President Park have been made habitable for them, which she said was not the case at the moment. However, Meiring confirmed that although the park was not habitable right now, only minor adjustments needed to be made. After the completion of Phase One, the animals, including the cows, goats, sheep and pigs, will be moved back to the Bunny Park. Forrest-Smith said Phase One will consist of building animal shelters, grazing enclosures, sick bay area, play area for goats, toys with food inside for the pigs, more troughs, water tanks and self-feeders. Three veterinarians will be appointed to sterilise the bunnies in a rotation system, and there will be weekly adoption days over weekends, starting in the new year. The landscaper who has been appointed via tender is Red Landscape Architects, the volunteer said. The aviary was suggested by Meiring, to be used as a play area for the goats with modifications and additions. The nutritionist will be making suggestions with regard to the well-being of the animals and the stimulation of the animals. There will be a proper maintenance programme instituted for the staff in respect of the animals. Gazebos will be erected for shade for the animals. According to Meiring, the following sections or additions need to be made within the Bunny Park for Phase Two: The ponds will be dredged Boreholes will be fixed Pressure pump Irrigation Parking and entrance facilities The fencing will be galvanised fencing Ablution facilities Staff quarters, walkways Kraal to be erected Play equipment for the children (tentatively) Lapas and braai area. However, the budget for these upgrades hasn t been finalised. Meiring said he has also proposed upgrading the camera system, included in the budget, at the Bunny Park so that there is 24-hour surveillance in the park to improve security. Caxton News Service More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.