A Pretoria North dog owner has been found liable for the damages suffered by a six-year-old boy, who sustained facial injuries when he was mauled by the man s bull terrier two years ago. Judge Johan Louw ruled in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria that dog owner Martinus Ras was 100% liable for the damages suffered by Eli Barnard and his father Marius. Although Barnard is claiming R322 000 damages, the actual amount that Ras must pay will only be determined at a later stage. The boy and his nanny were eating on the porch of their home when one of Ras s bull terriers bit him in the face while apparently trying to get to a piece of chicken he was eating. The boy s father is in a wheelchair and could not protect him. His mother died of complications due to a medical condition in 2010. ALSO READ: Police nab two alleged rapists in Mooiplaas According to court papers, the child sustained extensive wounds to his face. Barnard had rented a cottage from Ras on his smallholding outside Pretoria. He alleged in court papers Ras s two dogs were kept in kennels behind a high fence and that Ras, who did not live on the premises, did not come to feed them every day. The dogs allegedly sometimes tunnelled under the fence. He alleged Ras knew very well his dogs were vicious as they had attacked his son s nanny, Johanna Baloyi, on a previous occasion. Ras denied this and claimed the father had allowed his son to open the gate between the properties. Ras claimed Baloyi had told him the little boy had teased his usually peaceful dogs with a piece of chicken, causing one of the dogs to commit an error of judgment by lunging at the food. Baloyi denied this. She told the court one of Ras s dogs had crawled under the wooden fence before suddenly lunging at Eli s face. She managed to get both of her hands around the dog s neck and threw him off the screaming child, who was then rushed to hospital by his father. Louw rejected Ras s claims that the child had provoked the dog and found that he was liable for the father and son s damages as his dog had acted contrary to its nature as a house pet. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.