KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo has on Thursday, appealed to young people throughout the province to either abstain from having sex or use condoms and contraceptive methods which are available free of charge, so that they don t succumb to the September baby phenomenon. According to Dhlomo, an analysis of data over a three year period (2013-2015) shows that KZN hospitals recorded more deliveries of babies during September than in any other month, meaning that most mothers had conceived their pregnancies during the December holidays. Dhlomo said one million babies born countrywide each year, 80,000 are delivered by teen mothers who by sheer virtue of their age are neither physiologically nor psychologically ready to bear children. This often leads to serious health complications which may result in the death of the mother, the baby or both, said Dhlomo. It is no secret that, during the school holidays and the festive season, many young people may be tempted to experiment with new and dangerous things. This includes substance and alcohol abuse; and unprotected sex, which may have adverse and long-lasting effects on their lives. Dlomo said they are always concerned, not just in December but in any time of the year when young people fall pregnant at a young age because it is unsafe. If you re a young person under the age of 18, and you re delivering a child weighing 3.8kg for instance, chances of delivering safely are slim. It actually places the mother s own life and the baby s in danger. Dhlomo said sex should be spoken about openly instead of being treated as a taboo subject because when practised without adherence to safety, it can have life-altering and deadly consequences. This is something that all of us as society, including community leaders and educators in the classroom need to begin to talk to our children about. We must not pretend that by keeping quiet, children will not have sex. Or that if they do, they know the do s and don ts . Dhlomo urged healthcare workers to ensure that young people feel welcomed to seek assistance from public healthcare facilities. -African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.