The Democratic Alliance is looking forward to opposing President Jacob Zuma s court application to have former public protector Thuli Madonsela s remedial action recommendations in her report on state capture set aside, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Saturday. The DA noted that Zuma s legal team had filed papers at the High Court in Pretoria in an ill-conceived attempt to set aside the public protector s State of Capture report . In his founding papers, Zuma is asking the court to review and set aside remedial actions contained in the State of Capture report, in particular the recommendation to establish a judicial commission of inquiry into the matter calling it unconstitutional , Maimane said. As the original complainant in this case, as well as being listed in Zuma s papers as a respondent, we look forward to opposing this application. With the electorate, as well as large portions of his own party rejecting him, this is a desperate move by Jacob Zuma to delay the inevitable the last kicks of a dying horse. I have already laid criminal charges last month against President Jacob Zuma and his band of cronies for their role in aiding, promoting, and benefiting from the corrosive project of state capture in South Africa. In a meeting with the head of the serious commercial crimes unit last week it was confirmed to me that the Hawks will be investigating these charges. The DA will make sure Jacob Zuma, and all those who aid and abet him, are held accountable for their flagrant abuse of power to make themselves rich at the expense of the poor and the jobless, Maimane said. Zuma has asked the High Court in Pretoria to review and set aside the remedial action recommendations in the report. According to court papers published on the eNCA website, Zuma filed an affidavit on Friday, in which he questions Madonsela s recommendation in the report that he establish a commission of inquiry but that it be headed by a judge selected by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. He also wants the court to refer the report back to new Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane for further investigation. He contends that the recommendation is inconsistent with the rule of law, the Constitution, and breaches the separation of powers principle. According to the court papers, he argues that the decision to establish a commission of inquiry and who will head it is his prerogative. The report, released shortly before Madonsela left office at the end of October, includes details of an alleged improper relationship between Zuma and the wealthy, politically connected Gupta family. It recommends that these, and other allegations, be investigated by a judicial commission of inquiry to be headed by a judge appointed by Mogoeng. African News Agency (ANA)