A man lost his life after he was allegedly shot in the upper body multiple times in Muldersdrift, in Krugersdorp. Manie Steyn, 53, allegedly did not answer his phone when family members tried to contact him the morning after a family gathering held on Monday, Krugersdorp News reported. Drift Reaction, a security company in Muldersdrift, said family members found the man s body in his house on Monday at about noon after investigating the reason for his sudden silence. According to the family, they had a braai the previous evening at the man s house. Manie was fine when everyone left, a family member said. They allegedly contacted him the next morning to help him clean his house. The family allegedly returned to his house after numerous failed attempts to contact him. They found the front door of his house open and blood smeared across the floor, from the door to the inside of the house. They discovered his body in his bedroom next to an open safe at about noon that day. The deceased had three bullet holes in his chest and allegedly a fourth one in his leg. Based on the number of blood-smeared footprints inside and outside the house, it is suspected there were three attackers. It is alleged the attackers shot the victim at the door, and as he tried to get away from them, he managed to make it to his bedroom. It seems he then locked himself in the bedroom, as the door had evidence of forced entry. It also appeared the victim got his firearm from the safe. Other items were also stolen from the property. It is believed Steyn went to his front door to give his dog one of the bones from the braai when he was attacked, as the bone was found next to the blood trail. Police detectives gathered evidence at the scene but would not give any details, as that might jeopardise the investigation. We regard this as an extremely personal attack and the Criminal Intervention Squad was at the scene yesterday, assisted the family and also tasked informers, Jarque Treptow, CEO of Drift Reaction, said. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter .