The Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) has welcomed the decision by Standard and Poor s Financial Services not to downgrade South Africa s sovereign rating to junk status, or sub-investment grade. Standard and Poor s has maintained the country s rating at one notch above junk status with a negative outlook, allaying fears of the dreaded downgrading to sub-investment grade which would have escalated the cost of borrowing money from financial institutions, Fedusa general secretary Dennis George said. Although the country was going through tough economic times exacerbated by a bleak forecast on growth, the ratings agency s decision was an endorsement of efforts by social partners to finalise both an agreement on a national minimum wage, which a panel appointed by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa had proposed to be R3500 per month, and a package on labour stability which would see unionised workers being balloted on whether they wanted to go on strike or not, George said. On Friday night, Standard and Poor s downgraded South Africa s long-term currency rating from BBB+ to BBB. The ratings agency affirmed South Africa s A-2 short-term local currency ratings, and affirmed the long- and short-term foreign currency ratings at BBB-/A-3. The outlook on the long-term ratings remained negative. We also believe political events have distracted from growth-enhancing reforms, while low GDP growth continues to affect South Africa s economic and fiscal performance and overall debt stock. We are therefore lowering our long-term local currency rating on South Africa to BBB . We are affirming all other ratings. The negative outlook reflects the potentially adverse consequences of persistently low GDP growth for the public balance sheet, Standard and Poor s said. On political tensions in South Africa, it said: We think that ongoing continued tensions and the potential for event risk could weigh on investor confidence and exchange rates, and potentially affect government policy direction. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.