People in most parts of the country especially those who bore the brunt of scorching weather conditions in the past few days can breathe a sigh of relief as significant cooling coupled with rain are forecast for this week. Speaking to The Citizen yesterday, forecaster at the SA Weather Service Lebogang Mashile said people in Gauteng, the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, North West and Mpumalanga could expect cloudy conditions for the better part of this week. In the Eastern Cape, people in the northeastern parts of the province, which includes Queenstown and Elliot, should be on the lookout for possible severe thunderstorms today. KwaZulu-Natal was today expected to have cloudy conditions, with a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers, rising to 60% for the southern parts of the province. For the rest of the week, we are expecting a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers, Mashile said. ALSO READ: 33 children transported to hospital after swimming pool incident in Joburg In the Free State, there is a 60% chance of rain for most parts of the province today, with a warning for severe thunderstorms, extending into the extreme southeastern parts of the province. Mashile said people in North West could expect a 30% chance of rain today, as well as for the rest of the week. Although there is only a 30% chance of rain expected for Limpopo today and tomorrow, the odds of wet weather improve on Wednesday, when there is a 60%-80% chance of rain, especially over the central parts of the province. In Mpumalanga, most parts of the province can expect a 30% chance of showers and thundershowers. For some places, the chances are expected to increase to 60%, Mashile said. Although recent rain has not dealt the severe drought conditions a decisive blow, it has alleviated the situation significantly and was welcomed by most people. Amid the drought, several municipalities, including Joburg and Tshwane, have had to implement water restrictions in recent months. These restrictions prohibit, among other things, people using hosepipes to wash their cars and paving areas, as well as watering their gardens between 6am and 6pm. Authorities recently conducted a replenishment exercise of the Vaal Dam. At the beginning of last month, the Vaal Dam had reached an alarmingly low level of about 25% of capacity. Following the release of water from reserve storage capacity at Sterkfontein Dam and coupled with recent rain, the water level at Vaal Dam has improved to 38.6% of capacity. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.