Shopping for gifts is never easy. Gift giving is an art and, often, a very personal gesture. It s even more difficult when you re buying something for the geek in your life. What do they have? What do they need? What would they like? Here are a few suggestions from CompareGuru s resident Tech Geek err Tech Guru. 1. Star Wars Storm Trooper Shoulder Bag . Who doesn t love Star Wars? Exactly. EVERYONE loves Star Wars, even if they don t know it yet. This Star Wars Storm Trooper Shoulder Bag is the perfect way to show off your love of the Force while carrying around all your daily tech essentials. Will a lightsaber fight in it? There s really only one way to find out. Cost: R329 (Takealot). 2. Doom (PS4) . Games are always a good idea, especially for the geek in your life. After all, what better way to relieve stress and improve your hand-eye coordination than by playing a game? Doom, the first person shooter, is back! The latest version brings the classic gameplay that you loved before, but also adds new game modes and vastly improved graphics. Cost: From R690 (Pricecheck). 3. Redragon Gaming Keyboard, Mouse, And Headset Combo . True gamers, the ones who use a PC, love a good gaming setup. This usually includes having the best keyboard, mouse, and gaming headset. These gaming essentials work with Windows 10, 8, 7, Vista, XP, or later operating systems. Keyboard Features: 104 standard keys; 19 keys without conflict; 12 multimedia keys; splash-proof; interchangeable WASD keys and Arrow keys. WIN keys can be disabled for gaming. Laser-engraved keys; five-foot, high-speed USB cable; 3mm diameter high-strength braided fiber cable. Mouse Features: 2000 DPI; 4000 FPS; 15G ACC super-fast game engine; long-lasting teflon feet pads. Eight built-in tuning weights; three DPI settings 1000/1600/2000; 8mm width antiskid track-wheel; five-foot, high-speed USB cable; 3mm diameter high-strength braided fiber cable. GARUDA Gaming Headset Features: Gold-plated USB connectors; anti-slip textured surface and comfortable ergonomic design. Redragon Garuda H110 is a gamer s headset, equipped with a 3.5mm plug and a cable length of 2m. The headset is compatible with any device that has a 3.5mm port for connectivity, as well as Xbox One and Playstation 4 controllers. A single headset is covered with leather for maximum comfort of use. It includes a sensitive microphone that allows you to enjoy voice chat without any distractions. There is also a reinforced cable length of 2m. Cost: R799 (Takealot). 4. SkullCandy Uproar Bluetooth Earphones . Since everyone seems to be dropping the 3.5mm headphone jack, bluetooth earphones are a great gift idea. Being able to listen to your favourite songs and playlists, without getting tangled up in wires and cables is liberating. Finding a good pair that doesn t cost an arm and a leg, however, is not easy. Thankfully, SkullCandy have the Uproar Bluetooth Earphones on a special. Features: Wireless on-ear headphone; Use bluetooth functionality for on-board music control with built-in Mic; Take or make calls; play / pause; move forward / backwards; Navigate music with the built-in mic and easy-to-access buttons on the ear cup; Listen to a full 10 hours of music before charging Cost: R399 (Takealot). 5. Lego Star Wars Advent Calendar . Yes, the box says 6-14 years, but that s really more of just a suggestion than something you actually have to stick to (if you re older, that is). It s Lego and a Christmas advent calendar all in one. That means exclusive mini figures, starships, and more. What else do you need? Cost: R693 (Pricecheck). 6. Sandisk iXpand . Need to get more storage space on your iPhone? Sandisk has redesigned iXpand plugs into a lightning port, bringing more storage to your beloved Apple device. You can transfer content and files between the iXpand and the iPhone / iPad / iPod Touch, which means you don t have to worry about running out of storage space. Cost: Starting at R707 (Pricecheck). Price dependent on storage size of the iXpand 7. Knomo Knomad Air Powered Portable Organiser . Keeping your iPad and travel essentials together sounds like a dream for someone who s always on the go. Knomo make some of the best, most beautiful tech accessories. So, it makes sense that this is one of their products. Features: Fits an iPad Air or 10 tablet, along with a smartphone, pen, credit card, passport, etc. Includes a 5000ma slim battery pack to keep your devices charged. Slip your tablet into the protective, microfiber back-compartment. Includes a slim 5000ma battery with integral lightning and micro-usb connectors to keep your devices charged. Cost: R799 (Pricecheck). Brought to you by CompareGuru