The year 2016 saw some intensely dramatic road rage incidents, five of which The Citizen has picked as standouts. 1. Cop robbed of firearm in road rage incident Video footage shows an apparent road rage incident in Faerie Glen, Pretoria, where a metro police officer s firearm was taken by three men in March. After a few seconds of what seemed like an aggressive deliberation, one of the suspects is seen walking around the car, pointing a firearm at its occupants. Garsfontein police spokesperson Warrant Officer Dave Miller said these events appeared to have been sparked by an earlier road rage altercation at a traffic circle. The victim told police he was blocked in by a car after stopping at a traffic light. Three men came out and surrounded him. One of the men inside the blocked car was a traffic officer. There was a struggle between him and the three men, and they robbed him of his firearm before firing shots in the air, added Miller. 2. Joburg taxi driver killed in alleged road rage In April, a taxi driver died after he was punched in an apparent road rage incident in Yeoville, Johannesburg. Yeoville police spokesperson Constable Thabo Malatji said the violence between a sedan driver and the taxi driver erupted shortly after 5pm. As the argument continued between the two, more taxi drivers arrived and the argument got heated. Police officers arrived and were able to stop the fight. A taxi driver who had a fight with a sedan driver left the scene. As the police were about to leave, another taxi driver argued with the sedan driver. The sedan driver punched him, and he collapsed. The sedan driver fled the scene. The taxi driver died later at hospital, said Malatji. 3. Man shot twice in road rage incident A man was shot twice during an apparent road rage incident at Van de Linde Road, Roodepoort, on the West Rand, in June. According to West Suburb Roodepoort Neighbourhood Watch, Frik van Zyl said the drama started on Ontdekkers Road when a man and woman in a Golf GTI nearly collided with two men who were driving a Mercedes-Benz and a bakkie, respectively. The two men were travelling together. Van Zyl said the Mercedes and the bakkie then gave chase and followed the Golf to the Linde Lane complex where the occupants of the Golf stay. An argument ensued at the gate of the complex, and the woman hit one of the men with a wheel spanner. He then drew a firearm and fired five shots, two of which hit the male driver of the Golf in the leg, added Van Zyl. 4. VIDEO: Motorist attacked with knife in road rage incident Video footage shows a motorist s car being attacked by a man with a knife in an apparent road rage incident in Wilro Park, on the West Rand, in October (Warning! The strong language in this video will offend sensitive viewers). In the video, a man in a Pajero crashes into a white BMW. He then hangs out of his window and repeatedly stabs at the BMW s window using a large knife. 5. Road rage bystander killed for pointing out collision was driver s fault A man was shot and killed following a collision in KwaZulu-Natal. After the collision, a bystander who allegedly witnessed the incident was shot and killed. An unofficial source claimed the driver of the Sentra and a municipal worker got into an argument when the bystander intervened and told the driver of the Sentra he was clearly in the wrong. The bystander then walked away and was shot in the back by the driver. The driver then fired another round into the ground to scare off the municipal worker, who fled and contacted the police for assistance. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.