Bees are essential to our survival as they pollinate up to 70% of the crops grown for human consumption. However, swarming bees are a force to be reckoned with as they can easily become aggressive and attack man and animal, the Newcastle Advertiser reports. Over the past two weeks, four dogs in Newcastle have been killed by bees. It is a natural phenomenon that takes place twice a year, which is usually from September to mid December and in March, claimed beekeeper Mike Capes. I became a beekeeper four years ago after developing an interest in bees, and after a lot of self study, I also started removing them from people s homes. Although bees are essential for pollination, they can unleash devastation. Swarming usually takes place when there is over-production in the colony, and it grows bigger than what it should be, said Mr Capes. As additional queens, drones and other bees are born, the colony splits. A queen bee can leave with up to 35% of the colony, which will include scouts, drones and nursing bees and these bees can tally up to 20 000. The bees will then look for a place to cluster, and scouts will look for a place to create a new hive. During this time, bees can become extremely aggressive. The moment they are disturbed and it is hot, as it has been lately, they will attack anything that moves. Anything that interferes with their pheromone aura will be attacked. Mr Capes said he saw dogs that had been stung relentlessly by about 2000 bees. They will sting indiscriminately. If you see a swarm of bees, get yourself, your animals and others indoors as soon as possible. READ MORE: Swarm of bees sting an elderly woman to death He said any sudden vibrations caused by an idling vehicle or lawnmower could agitate swarms to attack. Wait until they calm down and have clustered, then call a beekeeper to remove them. However, removing bees is not an easy task. There is always a risk, as they sometimes settle in roofs and you have to go up on the roof with a ladder and start removing the tiles. Apparently, bees can also form a new hive underneath a bath in your house. If there is a pipe with a 4 -millimetre hole, they will go inside because the space under the bath is big enough for them to start a hive. When Mr Capes removes bees, he usually takes the queen, the drones and the honey storage to a standard hive, then sprays repellent where they were when he found them. Afterwards, he moves the bees to a farm to become a functional colony. Urban areas are the best foraging places for bees though, as people have flowers and fruit trees in their yards. Mr Capes advised to regularly check pipes, ceilings, roofs, bath outlets and chimneys for bee activity, but never to kill them. Once bees are in your home, you have a problem, and the bigger the swarm, the more dangerous it becomes. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.