After noticing that I was expanding, the missus and I rejoined gym after a few years sabbatical, and even though it has been a few days, a few of the experiences have proven to be eye-opening. I now know I am a mature middle-aged man, as I have somehow grown not only in weight, but also in confidence as well. When I was last at the gym, the most petrifying moments were not bench-presses or sprinting on the treadmill, but when it was time to take a shower and the other more talented guys would show off their schlongs. Being a conservative Swati man, I would cower at the sight of such manliness. No more! As a 33-year-old now, not only has my honourable member shrunk, but I am officially the guy with the smallest tool in the change room. The only difference now is that I now own that status. I walk around as if I am David about to take annihilate Goliath. I own that space as if I am a miniscule journalist, about to expose the shenanigans at the Herculean public broadcaster, and boy, does it feel good. I have also learnt about what I refer to as the peripherals of going to gym. I exercise in my free T-shirts, the uncoolest shorts you have ever seen and most probably the cheapest takkie lookalikes. It turns out I have to spend money for branded outfits (please notice the s at the end of that word, to indicate the plural form). And of course, they all have to match. Then there is the designer squeeze bottle, Beats By Dre headphones, FitBit and an iPod. Gym has been captured. For a long time, our public broadcaster was overweight with fraught management, but thanks to getting on the scale, we can all agree it needs to lose a few people, I mean kilos. There is only so much dead weight a body can take, before it starts breaking down not only externally, but internally as well. Things are so bad that it might even need a crash diet, just to get the process of weight-loss going. It will be tough, but it will be so worth it when that body is lean and working the way it was meant to. Producers, actors, journalists and the public in general have been suffering for way too long. Thamsanqa Mkwanazi. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.