The Kruger National Park (KNP) will be a little closer to being restored to its original savannah state and being its own boss, following the demolition of five more man-made watering points. The park is still in the grip of the drought, KNP spokesperson Ike Phaahla said on Wednesday. Some rain has helped a lot, however the central part of the park is still badly affected. He said the destruction of the man-made watering holes was on track and will be finished tomorrow. The decision to close the man-made watering holes in the middle of a drought has incensed some fans of the two million hectare internationally famous park and has put park managers between a rock and a hard place, especially given the hands off policy in effect. An overabundance of water had led to similar riches in animals. However, when the drought started to really bite this year it wasn t that animals were thirsty, it was that they were dying a slow, painful death by starvation because they had eaten all there was. When The Citizen visited in March this year, hippos too weak to browse were dying in precious water pools which led to the water being poisoned and having a knock on effect for other browsers. This project has been going on for the past 10 years and it is in line with SANParks water management policy, said South African National Parks spokesperson Rey Thakhuli. The KNP endeavours to restore natural ecosystem processes as far as possible. The objective is to revert to a more natural distribution in the availability of drinking water whereby natural sources such as perennial rivers, seasonal river pools, fountains, pans, etc are the primary sources of drinking water for wildlife. At one stage, there were 325 animal boreholes in the park. Now, only about 140 remain. The latest Kruger National Park man-made watering points to be demolished include the Sirheni Dam, which was breached by the 2012 floods and partially demolished in October 2015 but work was not completed, and the Langtoon Dam, located in the Vlakteplaas Ranger Section, which was breached in 2008. Also closed were the Ngotso and Bangu Weirs along the S89 and the old main road S90 in the Houtboschrand Ranger section and the Gudzani north windmill, located along the S90 and S41 roads also in the Houtboschrand Ranger Section. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.