The nation was utterly disgusted with revelations about SABC corruption and unaccountability, which emerged before the parliamentary committee on communications. There seemed to be a free-for-all in the provision of tenders, money spent on ANN7 for the Guptas, quality programmes slashed in favour of mediocre rubbish screened hundreds of times to a populace not interested in the leftover crap from abroad. The appointment of Hlaudi Motsoeneng and his less than competent board is the culmination of affirmative action processes that started under Ivy Cassaburi, already under the guise of transforming not only staff but content as well. ALSO READ: Tshwane could be placed under administration city manager Hlaudi ruled the broadcaster with an iron hand, sure of support from on high, using it not only to push propaganda in favour of the SABC but also as his private ATM. His salary escalated astronomically since the day he took over the reins until the day the law forbade him from continuing. Every CEO left under a cloud, from Dali Mpofu, to Peter Matlare, to Phil Molefe, to the current one. The boards were equally derelict. Where the latter chairman and board members were found God alone knows. Their visages inspire no confidence and I would not have given them a second look on the streets. As for Hlaudi, he behaves increasingly like Robert Mugabe. The long trajectory of fiascos within the public broadcaster shows a steady pattern of how the African National Congress, through sheer paranoia of wanting to rule until Jesus comes, occupied every lever of power, to be ready for the Second Coming. Lest we forget, the SABC has had to be bailed out every year to the tune of billions to make up for its excessive salaries, over expensive programme costs, commissioned projects and blatant propaganda. Corruption in wheeling and dealing, furthermore, added to the financial burden the SABC placed on the taxpayer. The parliamentary expos of the SABC is the culmination of the ANC s dramatically failed occupation of all the levers of power . And the more they fail, the more they continue.Thuli Madonsela is barely gone, when another scoundrel ascends the throne of public protector. Lawrence Mushwana, probably one of the worst public protectors, exonerated Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka when she went on holiday to Qatar with friends on taxpayers money, despite a report that had been exposed as a cover up. Lest we forget, there is a deployment committee that vets appointees and apparatchiks are consciously appointed to Chapter 9 institutions to weaken the very intention they were founded and included in the constitution. The Gender Commission had a history of one of the most sordid sagas of undermining a CEO that tried to discipline excessive spending. These bodies have become repositories of easy money for loyalists and deployed cadres regardless of qualifications and competence. Those who reposition and mobilise to get rid of President Zuma, will do so again. They will continue with cadre deployment and will be helped by embedded donor money also employed by civil society cadres, who are no more honourable than the ones they mobilise against. FILE PICTURE: Rhoda Kadalie, anti-apartheid activist, making a speech in Athlone. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.