One moment I was burying my grandmother, then I was packing my youngest off to university, then I was in Venice with my mother, then BOOM! it was December, almost Christmas, and it was all but over before it had even properly begun. I ve been trying to account for the months, but now I realise I ve lost entire years. I remember the endless days of my childhood as if it were yesterday, but my 20s? My 30s? I don t know what happened to them. A chronicle: in 1991, my first child was born. In 1994, I became a journalist and there was an election. In 1997, I moved to the UK (briefly) and had my second son. And then it was the millennium, and somewhere along the way I fell in love, moved to Ireland to pursue that love, and the 2010 World Cup happened, then I published a book, and went to Peru on holiday. But what on earth was I doing for the rest of those 25 years? I was busy, I m sure, and presumably content, yet somehow it s all blended into one soup of dog walks and politics, of work and play, of fights, hugs, grocery shopping, sadness and laughter, and probably too much sugar and wine. And I realise, looking back, that time is punctuated by the pivotal moments: a broken heart, a death, the first time you see your baby, violence, passion, adrenalin, epiphanies, by all the beginnings and endings. I can see too that the things we think will destroy us may in time become our making, unclipping wings we didn t know we had, setting us free. Yet, as we grow older, we do so much for an easy life, to maintain that even keel, to not be shaken from our comfort zone. But what if it is that very shaking, for good or bad, that shakes us up and creates a life that s memorable, that s meaningful? Because that which we avoid may ultimately be our redemption. Maybe this is why sometimes, on perfectly pleasant days, I have the urge to throw everything up in the air and watch it come crashing down. Because it s change that makes sense of it all. It s change that makes for a life fully lived and leaves a story worth telling. Jennie Ridyard More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.