The beginning of a parliamentary inquiry into the affairs of the SA Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has been frustrated further following an announcement on Wednesday that board chairman Mbulaheni Maguvhe had launched another court application. ALSO READ: MK will not attend ANC veterans meeting, says Kebby As the inquiry was meant to get rolling on Wednesday morning, MPs were informed that Maguvhe had launched an appeal against a ruling in the high court in Cape Town on Friday in which his application to interdict the inquiry from going ahead was dismissed. Chairman of the ad hoc committee conducting the inquiry Vincent Smith informed MPs that advice from Parliament s legal team was that the inquiry be suspended pending the outcome of the appeal. They also want the latest court action expedited. But not all MPs were convinced. The board is incurably inquorate Let us continue let us not be intimidated, said Democratic Alliance (DA) MP Phumzile van Damme. Inkatha Freedom Party MP Narend Singh said any court action to defend the legislature would be supported by his party. Singh did, however, express concerns about the timing of the appeal. We cannot be held to ransom in an unending fashion, he said. What is there to hide? One gets a perception that there are things people want to hide from us. It also emerged on Wednesday that Maguvhe had not complied with a summons from Parliament that he hand over all documents related to the inquiry, including those relating to the controversial multimillion rand-deal giving pay-TV operator MultiChoice access to the SABC s archives. Singh was incensed. It s totally, totally unacceptable. ALSO READ: Right to die likely to become constitutional issue DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters said allowing Maguvhe to continue ignoring the summons would set a dangerous precedent for other state institutions. Never ever has any institution refused to hand over documents to Parliament when it is subpoenaed to do this. To add insult to injury this is the public broadcaster, said Waters. Committee members later retreated to behind closed doors to discuss the way forward.