A police search and rescue team has recovered the bodies of three people a woman and two men who drowned when the van they were travelling in crashed into the Levubu River in Limpopo on Saturday, police said. The bodies were recovered in Levubu on Sunday, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said. The same police team also recovered the body of Tebogo Ngonyama, 19, from the Ritavi River in Giyani on Sunday. It was alleged that he was the victim of an armed robbery reported at Giyani police station earlier this weekend. He and another man were apparently forced into the river by the robbers. The other man managed to cross the river safely. As rains persists in some parts of our province we call on our people to exercise caution when crossing rivers and only cross at relevant places when it is safe to do so, Mojapelo said. In a separate incident on Sunday, a teenager drowned while playing beach ball in Paradise Beach lagoon in Jeffreys Bay in the Eastern Cape on Sunday, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said. The Kouga emergency response plan was activated and NSRI Jeffreys Bay dispatched a sea rescue vehicle, while Eastern Cape government health emergency medical services (EMS), the SA Police Service, and the Kouga municipal lifeguards were also activated, NSRI Jeffreys Bay station commander Rieghard Janse van Rensburg said. On arrival on the scene it was confirmed that a 16-year-old boy, from Port Elizabeth, was playing beach ball with friends in the lagoon when he slipped into a hole under the water and disappeared underwater. ALSO READ: Durban beaches are packed Six NSRI Jeffreys Bay rescue swimmers and two Kouga municipal lifeguards formed a sweeping line free dive search and during the search the body of the teenager was located and recovered. Paramedics declared the teenager dead. NSRI and emergency services conveyed sincerest condolences to the family the mother, father, and sister who were on the scene. They were being assisted by trauma counsellors, Janse van Rensburg said. African News Agency (ANA)