Former acting CEO of the SABC, Phil Molefe, painted a grim picture in parliament on Friday of the fast and highly irregular rise to power of current corporate affairs executive, Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Dating back to 2011, Molefe, who has worked for the SABC for 20 years since 1994, said he had been vehemently opposed to Motsoeneng being in any senior position as he was very junior and grossly inexperienced . But despite this, he had been sitting in on board meetings even though he wasn t a board member. Motsoeneng s first taste as a rightful member of the board came after he was appointed as acting chairperson in Molefe s absence, who was travelling outside the country at the time. ALSO READ: Maguvhe officially summoned to appear before SABC inquiry But Motsoeneng s meteoric rise to fame came fast. He went up the ranks from being a reporter in the Free State to more senior positions before being catapulted to head office in Johannesburg as a senior employee of the state broadcaster. He was literally airlifted from the Free State and parachuted to group chief operating officer, said Molefe. Molefe indicated that from there Motsoeneng s hold over the national broadcaster became even more apparent. This included a demand from then chairperson of the board that he sign off on a R500 000 salary increase, which he refused to do. ALSO READ: Zwane and Van Rooyen identified as worst parly slackers report Molefe said he was then informed by Motsoeneng in the presence of then SABC chairperson Ben Ngubane that: Chair [Ngubane], I told you that this is not our man so I am going to Pretoria tonight , an indication the matter would be referred to those higher up on the political chain. He later said that he couldn t say for certain that the minister or the president were not involved. Questions around good governance were exacerbated with the introduction of the Gupta family who wanted to promote their New Age newspaper and business breakfast broadcasts with highly-positioned officials on the SABC s platform. These proposals in my view were quite drastic and with significant financial implications. Such a move in any event would require board and ministerial approval . It didn t go down well with the Gupta brothers. Motsoeneng tried to persuade me, urging me to soften my approach in dealing with the Guptas. It is evident the erosion of governance and ethics as well as the collapse of systems and processes had started to take root in the SABC as far back 2011. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.