Former journalist and author turned City of Cape Town community liaison Steven Otter was murdered in the early hours of Friday morning, Mother City Mayor Patricia de Lille confirmed. It is with shock and great sadness that we learnt of the devastating news of Transport for Cape Town (TCT) employee, Steven Otter who was murdered during a burglary at his Harfield Village home in the early hours of this morning, a joint statement from Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille and Mayco member for transport, Brett Herron, said. Western Cape police later confirmed the death of a 43-year-old man during an apparent house robbery at around 4am this morning in Cambridge Road Claremont . Two armed suspects fled with a television set, a laptop computer and a cellular telephone and they are yet to be arrested, police spokesman Andre Traut said. Otter was De Lille s spokesperson while she was Independent Democrats leader and also penned the book uMlungu in a Township detailing his experience when he, as a white man, moved into the Cape Town township of Khayelitsha for a time. De Lille said she affectionately referred to Otter as Stevovo or my pavement special because of his eccentric nature. I have known and worked with dear Stevovo for many years and he was truly a one of a kind person whose dedication was certainly one of his greatest traits, said de Lille. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his ex-wife Janine Lange and their young daughter, Mya, 6, family, colleagues and friends. You are in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time. Herron said in his most recent job as head of community engagement at TCT (Transport for Cape Town), he was instrumental in keeping communities abreast of the MYCiTi and roads projects. No matter what he did, his work was always excellent and the plight of the vulnerable was always close to his heart. We are truly devastated by the news, Herron said. It will be impossible to replace the kind of passion, care and commitment he displayed. Herron credited Otter with the unblocking of a project to upgrade roads in Hout Bay s Imizamo Yethu. The project has been delayed due to community resistance, but Otter had knocked on every resident s door to ask residents to work with the city. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.