The Fourways community in Johannesburg has expressed outrage after a video surfaced showing a woman hitting her disabled child at a Fourways Gardens Shopping Centre restaurant. The woman is apparently a regular to the La Nouva restaurant in the centre, according to both the owners and regular patrons. Kyri Tjirkos, co-owner of the restaurant, was called to respond to the incident, which occurred on Wednesday, Fourways Review reported. &#8220;The woman was sitting in the restaurant s outside seating area with her son, who appeared to have special needs. The woman had ordered a plate of pasta for her child and was attempting to feed him,&#8221; he said. The boy wasn t eating properly, maybe he didn t want the food, and the woman became frustrated and began to smack [the boy] across the head and try to force-feed him, said Tjirkos. Nearby patrons saw this and tried to intervene, telling the woman that she could not do that to the boy. A man sitting nearby approached her, and I think at that point she lost complete control. She began swearing at the people watching her, hitting the child more and even overturned one of the tables, breaking the plates that were on it. At this point, I went outside and tried to calm the man down, because I thought that he was making her more angry and I didn t want the situation to get physical. Then the [shopping centre s] security guard arrived on the scene and began comforting the young boy who was crying, added Tjirkos. The woman apologised to Tjirkos for the damage she had caused, offered to pay for it and then followed the security guard, who had decided to take the child outside to try and calm him. Following the incident, co-owner, Tyrone Dewitt, managed to get the contact details for the woman s husband, who arrived at the restaurant later that afternoon for a meeting to discuss the matter with Dewitt and Tjirkos. We talked to [her husband] about what had happened, and he has agreed to work with us to ensure that the child is safe and taken care of. The woman has been banned from our premises because those sort of action will not be tolerated, said Tjirkos. It was shocking and, as a father myself, I don t care about what people may be saying about the restaurant the thing that matters to me is the boy s well-being. And while we are trying to work with his father, if his response to this is not appropriate, I myself, will take measures to do what s best for the child with authorities. That is my biggest concern. One of the patrons who had witnessed the incident, Dan Carson, recorded the events on his cellphone and posted it on the I Love Fourways Facebook page, where it received hundreds of comments from residents who were shocked and outraged. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter .