Health ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba on Monday confirmed claims by the Democratic Alliance (DA) that a psychiatric patient who was transferred to an NGO in Gauteng has died bringing to 39 the number of patients who died after their relocation from Life Esidimeni. DA MPL Jack Bloom said Julian Pieterson from Newclare in western Johannesburg died last week at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital where he had been transferred from the NGO. Speaking on Talk Radio 702 Makgoba confirmed that a patient had died at the weekend. He, however, said the patient died at Tshwane District Hospital and not at the Steve Biko Academic hospital as earlier claimed by Bloom. Makgoba also said he now had all the relevant information regarding his probe into the deaths of the 38 patients who died after they were transferred to various NGOs. He said he had interviewed as many as 74 people on the matter. Inspection of the 26 affected NGOs had been completed, added the health ombudsman. He said he had received a a clinical report from a panel of eight experts. ALSO READ: UN slams flawed handling of psychiatric patients saga I now have the documents I need to compile a report, said Makgoba. Earlier Bloom said: It is also significant that Social Development Deputy Minister Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu revealed for the first time last week that her own brother was one of the psychiatric patients who died when he got transferred illegally like all the other families . Bloom said Pieterson s family had visited him at the NGO in Pretoria, where they described the conditions as terrible . He said the family told him there was no proper medication. They also complained the food was not enough. Bloom again blamed Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, who is a member of the African National Congress (ANC), for the deaths and called for her to resign. He reiterated his call to Premier David Makhura, an ANC leader, to fire Mahlangu. He said the latest death at the weekend brought to 39 the deaths of psychiatric patients who were relocated from Life Esidimeni. It is utterly shameless that she continues to deny accountability and is protected by Premier Makhura said Bloom. Spokesperson for the Gauteng Department of Health, Steve Mabona, appealed for patience ahead of the completion of the Health Ombudsman investigation. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.