Condolences poured in from across the country on Monday, for award-winning gospel artist, Sfiso Ncwane, after the news that he has died from suspected kidney failure at the age of 37. According to a KwaZulu-Natal based gospel community station, Highway Radio, Ncwane passed away at Fourways Life hospital in Johannesburg on Monday morning after a short illness. In a brief statement President Jacob Zuma said: The passing of Mr Ncwane is a massive loss for the country. His music touched the hearts of millions of people. He was one of the best gospel artists that the country has ever produced, and he left us at such a young age. We are deeply saddened. May his soul rest in peace. The office of the KwaZulu-Natal premier Willies Mchunu also expressed condolences to Ncwane s family. ALSO READ: The last, hearfelt message Ayanda penned about marriage to Sfiso Ncwane Hours after we received the news of the passing away of Ncwane, we are still in deep shock. The pain is immeasurable across the province and the country as a whole, Mchunu was quoted as saying in a statement. The province s Arts, Culture, Sports and Recreation MEC Bongi Sithole-Maloi was expected to visit the family on Tuesday and report back to the provincial executive on Wednesday. Ncwane was a gifted musician who left an indelible mark in the country and represented this province with distinction both as a musician and as an ambassador for road safety campaigns, said Mchunu. Critically, Ncwane was a symbol of hope to many aspiring gospel singers, a genre which has grown in leaps and bounds in terms of popularity and inspiration in recent times. Zwakele Mncwango, the leader of the Democratic Alliance in KwaZulu-Natal also paid tribute to the fallen gospel singer. The DA wishes to convey its heartfelt condolences to the family of the award-winning gospel artist. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Ncwane family, his colleagues in the media industry and fans during this difficult time, he said. He said that the province and the country as a whole had lost an icon. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.