The Extreme Fighting Championship (EFC) caps off a breathtaking year at Carnival City Friday night when South Africa s Dricus du Plessis looks to create his legacy as the most exciting fighter in the organisation. Du Plessis, the EFC welterweight champion, will collide with Polish middleweight Rafal Haratyk in what has been billed a mega match-up between two of the most dominant fighters in their respective weight classes. The South African was due to put his title on the line against Ireland s Henry Fadipe, but due to a hand injury, Fadipe was forced to pull out of EFC56. And finding a replacement that would motivate and excite Du Plessis at welterweight bore no fruit, so he decided to go up a weight class to face the Pole. When Rafal Haratyk was mentioned, it got me excited, something I know can boost my career. And when I beat him, once again it is going to show that, regardless of the weight division, when I step into the cage I will do what it takes to get the victory. In the co-main event of the night, the middleweight title is at stake when the champion, England s Yannick Bahati, will look to keep his gold against South Africa s David Buirski, the former welterweight champion. Buirski will look to make history by claiming his second title in a second division, but standing in his way is an angry behemoth of a champion, a man who is in search of vengeance and redemption. Bahati was shocked in his last outing at EFC53 when he was knocked out by Michiel Opperman, in the first round. Undefeated featherweight champion Igeu Kabesa puts his perfect record and title on the line when he faces notorious knockout artist and champion wrestler Hanru Botha. While Kabesa has breezed through all his opposition to date, Botha is seen to be his biggest threat yet. With the power to knock out anyone and wrestling skills to match the champion, Kabesa s agility and heart will be put to the test. Rounding off the main card for the night sees two of the best boxers in the organisation clash when South Africa s Wesley Hawkey and Wales Azi Thomas meet and MMA legend Martin van Staden faces the DRC s rising star Kaleka Kabanda.