Vernon Philander brought a swift end to the Sri Lankan first innings before Dean Elgar and Stephen Cook once again showed good judgement in taking South Africa through to 39 without loss at lunch on the third day of the first Test at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday. Philander finished with five for 45 in 20 outstanding overs as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 205, before openers Elgar (26*) and Cook (12*) extended South Africa s lead to 120 before a thunderstorm brought a halt to proceedings and an early lunch, half-an-hour ahead of schedule. Also read: Vernon Philander&#8217;s at the peak of his powers again Sri Lanka, replying to South Africa s first innings of 286, had resumed on 181 for seven on Wednesday morning and Philander struck with his first ball and took two wickets in an inspired first over of the day. His first delivery was in the perfect place, drawing Dhananjaya de Silva half-forward before shaping away beautifully, the promising 25-year-old edging it into the gloves of wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock. De Silva had been in for two hours in scoring 43, the highest score in the Sri Lankan innings. The last ball of the over then saw Suranga Lakmal (4) plop a drive, after he was beaten by late movement, into the hands of Kyle Abbott at mid-on, giving Philander his 11th five-wicket haul in his 38th Test. The final wicket fell to the admirable Abbott, who finished with three for 63 in 21.5 overs, as Dushmantha Chameera was caught in the slips for 19, his career-best score. Nuwan Pradeep was the unbeaten batsman, on eight, with the last-wicket pair managing to get the total over the 200 mark and the deficit into double-figures. Also read: #TweetReport: Quinton s cock(s)-ups The Proteas nearly lost a wicket to the first delivery of their innings too, as Cook somehow squirted the ball through the slips for four while trying to play Lakmal through midwicket. The openers survived through to the end of the session though, with Elgar the more assured of the two, playing well off the back foot. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 