The South African Communist Party (SACP) urged South Africans to rail against inequality, the Guptas, and state capture in 2017. In a statement released by SACP national spokesman Alex Mashilo, the party wished all South Africans a Happy New Year but warned that the country s success should not be measured by the number of billionaires it has, but rather by the improvement in the conditions of the masses. Mashilo pointed out that in 2016 the world s richest people had grown wealthier and that inequality had deepened globally and in South Africa. The Guptas have become the richest black billionaires in 2016 shows the toxic role of corporate capture of the state, in addition to deepening exploitation of the workers and the poor both economically and politically. He said that the struggle against the exploitation of workers needed to be intensified in 2017 so that the economy could be transformed. It is also important that we fight to jealously guard our democratic national sovereignty, so that our country is not sold to the highest bidder, and so that we are able to pursue our own economic policies. He said that in 2017 there needed to be a strengthening of the relationship between the SACP and its alliance partners the African National Congress, the Congress of SA Trade Unions and the SA National Civics Organisation. In 2016 the SACP found itself at odds with the ruling party, especially in KwaZulu-Natal where there was dissatisfaction over the way candidates were nominated for the August 3 local government elections, the election of Zandile Gumede as head of the ANC s eThekwini Regional chairperson, as well as the removal of Senzo Mchunu as premier of KwaZulu-Natal. The party is expected to hold its National Policy Conference in June where several policy decisions would come up for debate. The most immediate challenge is to build hope among our people, that indeed a better South Africa that creates jobs and sustainable livelihoods is indeed possible. There is no better way to achieve this hope, other than to build and strengthen our Alliance and other progressive mass organisations with the working class in a firm leading position, said Mashilo. Mashilo also took aim at the Democratic Alliance, by condemning the recent visit of Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga s to Taiwan, saying that by doing so he had interfered in China s internal affairs because he had violated the One China policy. He said that the SACP pledged its solidarity to Western Sahara, Palestine and Swaziland and condemned the recent shooting of Russia s ambassador in Turkey. African News Agency (ANA)