While relaxing with her family in their Umdloti beach house in KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday morning, Laura Emanuel had no idea her day was about to change drastically with a push , catch and a cry, North Coast Courier reports. My husband Roy was down on the beach when he came running up to the house at about 11am calling me to come quick because a woman was having a baby, said Laura, who is a trained nurse and midwife from the Midlands. Get my gloves, Laura shouted, and together with her daughter Jessica and her husband, they rushed down to the beach parking lot, where the mom was lying on the grass. The last baby I delivered was in 1982, when my domestic, Mandolo, complained of stomach cramps and next thing out came a baby, said Laura with an endearing laugh. When they arrived at the side of the Zimbabwean woman, Salerio Mat angwa, Laura s midwifery skills immediately kicked in. I just told her to pant, breath, pant and it all came back to me. Meanwhile, people arrived from all over to help. READ MORE: Mpumalanga woman gives birth at Dis-Chem store Everyone was incredible. They came with blankets, sheets, clothes, nappies and even an umbrella. We set up what we could to make it as comfortable and private as possible for the mom, who was at the beach with a church group when she went into labour. Laura noticed the umbilical cord was wrapped around the baby s neck. Luckily, I have had a situation like this before and knew what to do. I slipped my finger under the cord, and the baby was fine. When the baby was out, he cried, and everything was just beautiful. It is always so emotional to deliver a baby, I just wanted to cry. She said Matangwa was quiet and shocked, but relieved to have Laura s help. She did not say anything, but she did not have to. My husband is so proud of me, he was even a bit teary. I do not feel proud because this is what I used to do. I am just happy to have been able to help. The mother named the baby Emanuel, after Laura s surname and was taken to a clinic, where both her and baby Emanuel are doing well. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.