Illegal immigrants represent a challenge to those who regard the rule of law as the cornerstone of liberalism. Foreigners here illegally may compound the problem with multiple offences and public office bearers are duty-bound to uphold the law. However, a hardline approach would deviate from the legacy of Alan Paton, who said: By liberalism I mean a generosity of spirit, a tolerance of others, an attempt to comprehend otherness, a commitment to the rule of law, a high ideal of the worth and dignity of man, a repugnance of authoritarianism and a love of freedom . Johannesburg is different from what it was when Paton wrote Cry, the Beloved Country in 1948 but it remains a magnet. One reason why illegal immigrants are so prevalent is there has been no policy for dealing with displaced people. Under the ANC, untold numbers have crossed our borders to settle in SA s biggest, richest city. Sporadic attempts at applying the law have been tinged with xenophobia, and tainted by corrupt Home Affairs officials who squeeze money from the desperately poor. There s no generosity of spirit, nor any high ideals, when waste-pickers are driven from their shelters and their possessions burnt. At a recent media briefing, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba attracted negative coverage when he said: Anyone who s been in the city illegally must be prepared to face us. We are not going to tolerate illegality &#8230; I m declaring war against illegality in our city . ALSO READ: British serviceman Malema, hands off Mugabe! Despite adverse commentary, the statement resonated with some residents. Although Mashaba was discussing inner-city conditions, his message has relevance for my ward, where hundreds of Lesotho nationals, most of them without documentation, were recently moved from George Lea Park. Situated at the corner of Sandton Drive and William Nicol Drive, the park was the subject of a documentary Squatters in Sandton on eNCA s CheckPoint in June. Before George Lea was fenced off in October, people living there were interviewed by officials from the city and the Lesotho consulate. I spoke to some. Many said they did not want to go home or move to shelters, of which there are none nearby anyway. Asked what would happen if the park was closed, they said they d relocate to nearby open spaces. They have done so. Residents are concerned about security and environmental degradation from litter, ablutions and much else. What s the right approach? Humane solutions have scant support, not much of it practical. Angry residents who demand the enforcement of bylaws have valid arguments. What does social justice demand? Migration is a worldwide problem, famously in Donald Trump s US, which has strayed from the Statue of Liberty s message: Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me Surrounded by impoverished neighbours, SA understandably attracts such huddled masses . But the city would not be faced with so much illegal immigration if national governments did their jobs. DA city councillor for Joburg Martin Williams For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.