Good news for Gauteng residents is that the heatwave that has gripped the province this week is expected to end on Thursday. But forecaster Mbavhi Maliage from the South African Weather Service told The Citizen on Wednesday very hot conditions were expected on Thursday. Maximums in Pretoria are expected to reach highs of 37 C today while Johannesburg and Vereeniging will peak at 35 C. We do not expect any rainfall over Gauteng on Thursday, but the real chances are expected to return on Sunday, Maliage said. The heatwave in Limpopo, Mpumalanga, KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape and North West is expected to last until Friday. In Limpopo, maximums are set to remain in the late 30s and early 40s, with Lephalale expected to peak at scorching highs of 40 C on Thursday. Elsewhere in North West, areas that can expect hot conditions include the province s capital, Mafikeng, with 37 C and Vryburg at 38 C. Rustenburg is set to peak at 36 C. In the Northern Cape, Upington is expected to reach highs of between 41 and 43 C. ALSO READ: Watch 1st person receive new HIV vaccine The heatwave follows a couple of weeks in which thunderstorms in some places left a trail of destruction. The weather desk said consistent rainfall, which is needed in terms of increasing the country s dam levels, can be expected anytime this month. Towards the beginning of last month, the Vaal Dam, which supplies water mainly to Gauteng, had reached alarming levels of 25%, prompting authorities to begin a replenishing exercise by releasing water from the Sterkfontein Dam. Sterkfontein Dam is used as reserve storage for the Vaal Dam. Following the recent rainfall and the water released from Sterkfontein, levels at the Vaal Dam have increased gradually in recent days. On Wednesday, the level at the Vaal Dam stood at 34.6% while the level at Sterkfontein was 74.5%. The replenishing of the Vaal Dam is expected to be concluded by the end of this month and the department of water affairs hopes the levels will be close to 70%. Meanwhile, several municipalities in Gauteng have also been forced to implement level 2 water restrictions. Residents are not allowed to use hosepipes between 6am and 6pm. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.