West Rand District Municipality mayor Boyce Maneli has promised to do more for less using the municipality s small budget to improve people s lives in the district. Maneli, who was giving a progress report on his 100 days in office since the local government election in August, said it did not matter that the budget was small with faith and a plan of action we will also begin a revolution . Maneli said a procurement process is underway to start the Regional Integrated Plan, which will ensure effective and efficient management of regional infrastructure in the district. His announcement comes against the backdrop of widespread complaints by residents that, despite the West Rand being home to many mines in Gauteng, the entire area from Roodepoort up to the far West Rand has been neglected for years when it comes to development. Some cited the lack of infrastructure, such as a bus transit system, Gautrain routes and prominent sporting facilities for major professional sports. They claim that the provincial government concentrated modern infrastructure development in central Johannesburg, Soweto and the East Rand, while the West Rand relies on taxis and unreliable trains for its transport needs. Maneli said the district held 42 Ntirhisano War Room outreach programmes and serviced 55 000 people on site. Ntirhisano was initiated by the provincial government to reach out to people to hear their needs and deliver accordingly. The mayor also announced that 883 houses were allocated in Kagiso, Westonaria Borwa, with the next phase coming in 2017. He said two sites have been identified in each town to implement the non-racial, non-sexist integrated cities for mixed development, over and above sites earmarked for social housing in the district. Maneli said one-on-one agreements are ready to be signed between him and members of the mayoral committee. The agreements are meant to hold the executives accountable for the service delivery they promised. He said five fire engines have been commissioned to improve response to fire and rescue calls, with more coming early next year. An agri-park was launched to assist emerging farmers to access entry into established markets. Two co-ops, including one for disabled people, are already in operation at the park. A total of 20 emerging farmers were assisted with land preparation and four co-ops supported with information, while an agreement was concluded on proto-type farming. In addition to the outcome, we have facilitated the establishment of a regional centre for the Gauteng Innovation Ekasi hub. This hub will assist township entrepreneurs with incubation programmes. In addition to the outcome, jointly with Tshepo 500 000 and NYDA, we have developed a programme targeting unemployed youth with grade 12-plus. This programme will empower them with life skills and entrepreneurial development. A total of 150 youth have been trained in Kokosi, Maneli said. ericn@citizen.co.za