Mathematics teaching in South Africa was of poor quality, with teachers lacking knowledge of the Mathematics curriculum they taught, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said on Monday. South Africa is significantly underperforming in education in general, particularly Mathematics teaching and learning. Mathematics teaching is often poor quality, with teachers not able to answer questions in the curriculum they are teaching, one indicator of the challenge. Often national testing is misleading as it does not show the major gap at lower grade levels, Motshekga told education experts at a three-day Mathematics Indaba held in Pretoria. The indaba was held to come up with solutions for the continued poor performance in Mathematics at public schools. According to the department, the indaba would place the teaching and learning of Mathematics within the public schooling system boldly on the radar . There was also a need to define the set of values for the teaching and learning of Mathematics in the South African context . Motshekga said there was general access to education at schools, but that access to quality teaching was a problem. The country faced an enormous task of correcting the wrongs in the public education system, she said. Clearly, we are doing well in terms of access and equity, but not well in quality. We must bear in mind that the numbers are telling us that if the public schooling sector fails, the whole country will tumble. Moreover, the recent OECD Country Report on South Africa for 2013 concluded that to redress catastrophically high unemployment among the youth, 51 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 education remains the critical problem . The OECD argues that South Africa s educational outcomes are aggravating the excess supply of unskilled labour and worsening income inequality, she said. Motshekga has recently come under fire for its decision to condone pupils who did not meet the requisite Mathematics requirements for progression to the next grade in the senior phase grades 7 to seven to 9. The department lowered the pass mark for Mathematics to 20 percent in order to condone affected pupils who could not attain the 40% pass mark. The department said if a pupil failed a language they would fail the year, but said they could fail Mathematics and still pass and go to the next grade. To get a pass mark in languages and other subjects, a pupil must score 40% and above, it said. Motshekga said government had begun to accept that there was a problem in the teaching and learning of Mathematics, and that the situation required urgent intervention. Yet the extent and depth of the problem is often underestimated in favour of reports of progress such as the recent Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) 2015. In our view, perhaps misplaced is that TIMSS 2015 showed an upward trajectory in both Mathematics and Science. We convinced ourselves that improvement of 87 points for Mathematics and 90 points for Science indicate significant progress. The cold fact is that we are moving from a low base, she said. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.