If there s one thing South Africans know how to do properly it s celebrate the holiday season. Never have I been in any other country where businesses and everything else comes to a complete standstill all in celebration of the end of the year. In a previous life I fondly recall how many people would struggle through those last days of November in anticipation of December. Then magically it s Saturday every day. Restaurants are full, shopping malls are fuller and everyone is spending money on things they don t need. I ve grown to miss that tangible jovial feeling in the air and the happiness that seems to be exuding from everybody. Spare a thought for those of us living in exotic places where finding even a Christmas tree is hard and Christmas music is missing from many a playlist. While you are having your month of Saturdays, life pretty much carries on in my part of the world. Children have school as normal and business is business. In Asia the Gregorian Calendar doesn t mean much and Lunar New Year is of far more importance. I have experienced a White Christmas. It really is not what you imagine it to be. It s freezing cold. So cold in fact that you don t really want to go outside and socialise. Fresh snow is beautiful, yes. But once it starts melting and getting dirty and the dogs start doing their business on it, it morphs into a series of obstacles. Gliding over the iced-over roads without falling is a victory in its own. I ve had many people tell me different but I prefer my Santa in board shorts standing next to his braai. Summer is the perfect season for Christmas. Do spare us poor souls who buy into the Christmas hype in the warmer countries a thought. Those Christmas hats were definitely not designed to keep your head cool. I never understood why anyone would want eggnog and heavy food in the heart of summer. I remember one Christmas in particular spent in Brazil where I visited a Santa Claus street and marvelled at the residents dedication to outdo each other when it came to Christmas decorations. I then proceeded to spend Christmas Day washing the car of the person I was visiting. Seems Christmas Eve was more important than the day itself. Interpretations of Christmas differ wherever you go. If one good thing came from colonisation, and something that I sorely miss, it s Boxing Day. Boxing Day is like a Christmas gift to the whole country. It s that comfort of knowing you can act a fool on Christmas Day and still have the buffer of the next day off. It s the extra day off we all crave for when we have any other public holiday. For many sadly it isn t even necessary because they will only return to work after new year. There s nothing nice about only having Christmas off and then having to drag your heavy carcass, from all the feasting the day before, to work the next day. It just doesn t feel right. You even start missing the awful things about Christmas. I shudder to say that I miss Boney M. That last-minute shopping rush. But the one thing I miss the most is that familiar Ke Dezemba Boss reserved for this special time of year. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.