The last member of a syndicate that defrauded the South African taxman with millions of rands over a period of seven years was on Wednesday sentenced in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to 15 years&#8217; effective imprisonment. Judge Mahomed Ismail effectively sentenced Andries Seoketso (alias Andrew Molefe) to 15 years&#8217; imprisonment on a charge of contravening the Prevention of Organised Crime Act and 1 040 counts of fraud, which earned Seoketso a cool R1.5 million and resulted in a potential loss of more than R4.5 million. Seoketso was on the run from the police for more than two years after he and another member of the syndicate, Sello Mothongwane, failed to appear in court in December 2013. Seoketso was rearrested at his parental home in April this year. Fourteen of the co-accused, including former Sars employees Syndicate Moyo, his wife, Jane, and Richard Bopape, were in June 2014 sentenced to long terms of imprisonment for their role in the massive fraudulent scheme. ALSO READ: Suspects hit two Cape Town malls at the same time Mothongwane was rearrested in 2014 and was in December last year sentenced to eight years. The syndicate had offered jobs to unemployed people in return for their identity documents and then &#8220;registered&#8221; them as taxpayers and produced fraudulent certificates indicating that their &#8220;employees&#8221; had deducted excessive tax from their salaries. This resulted in fraudulent tax &#8220;refunds&#8221; being paid out and channelled into the bank accounts of members of the syndicate. The scheme operated between 1998 and 2005 before Sars became suspicious because the same post box addresses were used for so many taxpayers. Moyo, a former petty cash administrator in the PAYE department of Sars, who was described as the founding father of the fraudulent scheme, in which the syndicate attempted to defraud Sars of close to R30 million, was sentenced to 15 years&#8217; imprisonment. Ismail said although Seoketso was not the mastermind, he was the right-hand man of Jacob Kunene, the syndicate&#8217;s &#8220;postmaster-general&#8221;, and had helped Kunene to take the scheme to a whole new level. He said it was aggravating that Seoketso had defrauded SARS, which was responsible for collecting monies used for the proper functioning of the state and the well-being of its citizens and that the group had used vulnerable and desperate people for their callous scheme. The crimes were cunning, well-planned and carried out over a period of seven years, and Seoketso had never repaid a single cent of his ill-gotten gains, nor shown any real remorse for what he did, he added. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.