Unionist Zwelinzima Vavi on Monday told delegates at the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa s (Numsa) 10th national congress in Cape Town that the proposed national minimum wage was an insult . The former General Secretary of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) told Numsa members that the proposed minimum wage of R3,500 was not only insulting but also shocking . Numsa, which has about 400,000 members was expelled from Cosatu two years ago after it said it was withdrawing its support of President Jacob Zuma, who is the leader of the African Nation Congress (ANC). Vavi was also expelled from Cosatu for bring the name of the federation into disrepute. The ANC, Cosatu and the South African Communist Party are in a tripartite alliance. Vavi said the proposed minimum wage coming from a government that claims to be on the side of the poor was shockingly low. READ MORE: Numsa re-elects virtually unchanged top six at national congress This is not a struggle for democracy, it is a struggle for competing interests. I beg you all, keep Numsa an independent union, said Vavi. Vavi warned all class collaborators to keep their hands off the unions. This is an attempt to undermine worker powers but we need to warn the class collaborators, hands off our unions. Earlier on Monday Numsa delegates re-elected the same office bearers for five of the six positions that were available during nominations. Andrew Chriwa was re-elected for the position of president. When asked by the speaker if he was available for the position, he said yes , to loud cheers from the crowd. Basil Cele was re-elected as first deputy president, Irvin Jim was nominated to stay as Numsa General Secretary, Karl Kloete was once again put forward as deputy General Secretary and the Treasurer was once again Mphumzi Maqungo. The only position to be contested in nominations was the position of second deputy President, which was a contest between Ruth Ntokwane and Puleng Phaka. The congress continues on Tuesday. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.