Sri Lanka s top-order batsmen had neither the technique nor the determination to prosper on a tricky St George s Park pitch as South Africa reduced them to 181 for seven on the second day of the first Test in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. After South Africa had collapsed in the first 45 minutes of the second morning from their overnight 267 for six to 286 all out, Sri Lanka lost Dimuth Karunaratne (5), Kusal Perera (7) and Kusal Mendis (0) cheaply to Kyle Abbott and Vernon Philander as they slumped to 22 for three. Also read: #TweetReport: Quinton&#8217;s cock(s)-ups A humid day meant there was swing on offer to go with the consistent movement off the pitch and, even though they fought hard and got themselves in , Kaushal Silva (16), Angelo Mathews (39) and Dinesh Chandimal (28) could not convert their lengthy innings into something more substantial. Rangana Herath was not afraid to be innovative during his 32-ball innings of 24, but a reverse-sweep was too much of a risk and he was trapped lbw by fellow left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj to leave Sri Lanka on 157 for seven and facing dismissal before the end of the day s play. But bad light at 4.30pm, with 22 overs still to be bowled, and the application of Dhananjaya de Silva, who went to 43 not out after two hours at the crease, ensured they made it to the close without further loss. Philander claimed his 20th wicket against Sri Lanka in five games and Abbott also excelled on his new home ground as South Africa reduced the visitors to 104 for five at tea. In the fourth over after the break, Philander nipped the ball back into Chandimal to hit him in front of middle stump and claim the 9998th lbw in Test history. Philander and Abbott had knocked over the Sri Lankan top-order as the home side brushed off the disappointment of their batting collapse in the morning. Philander took three for 35 in 16 superb overs that featured the most perfect seam position imaginable, while Abbott, who has joined the Eastern Cape Warriors this season after beginning his career in KZN with the Dolphins, also obtained considerable movement as he took two for 49 in 18 excellent overs. Although the initial forecast predicted rain on Tuesday afternoon, the sun shone on a humid day that provided swing for the pace bowlers, and Sri Lanka s batsmen struggled. Captain Mathews defied the potent Proteas attack for almost two hours, scoring 39, before Kagiso Rabada finally gained some success by bowling a fuller length, drawing an edge which was snapped up by Dean Elgar at third slip. Opener Silva scored a nuggety 16 in 108 minutes, before he was trapped lbw by Philander, a decision which was unsuccessfully reviewed by the batsman, the champion seamer having followed up a series of away-swingers with a delivery that nipped back off the pitch. The first session of the day was also dominated by the ball as seven wickets fell, South Africa seizing control by reducing Sri Lanka to 37 for three at lunch. After South Africa had lost their last four wickets for 19 runs in 8.5 overs, Abbott and Philander then put the smiles back on the home fans faces. A humid morning and a healthy covering of grass on the pitch was like mother s milk for the pair of opening seamers and they needed just 21 balls to strike as Karunaratne (5) shattered his own stumps trying to drive an Abbott delivery that nipped back a bit to find the inside edge. Perera (7) came in at three and, judging by the looseness of his technique during his 13-ball innings, it is way too high for him. His habit of slashing wildly outside off stump is going to result in a high percentage of edges and sure enough he was caught behind by Quinton de Kock off Philander in the seventh over. Mendis then fell to Abbott for a duck, trying to drive on the up, the ball jagging away off the seam and hitting high up on the bat before going through to wicketkeeper De Kock, who took a good diving catch. The flood of Sri Lankan wickets recalled the end of the South African innings, as they resumed on 267 for six but were all back in the changeroom within 45 minutes of the second day. Also read: LIVE REPORT: Advantage Proteas after day 2 in PE Philander, having survived a chance to Chandimal after he gloved a hook off Nuwan Pradeep in the paceman s previous over, then spliced a hook to deep midwicket to be caught for 13. Suranga Lakmal then produced the sort of late away-swing that sent back four Proteas batsmen on the first day to have Maharaj caught behind for a duck, completing his first five-wicket haul in his 32nd Test. Abbott lasted just three balls and also failed to score as he was run out, De Kock calling him for a second run before realising Perera s throw from deep backward point was already on its way, and then sending the fast bowler back with little chance of survival. De Kock only added five more runs with Rabada (0*), Pradeep, who bowled with a lot more verve on Tuesday, going through his defences with a pinpoint yorker, the in-form wicketkeeper/batsman being bowled for 37. Lakmal was the star of the attack with career-best figures of five for 63 in 27 overs, while Pradeep finished with two for 66 in 21.5 overs and left-arm spinner Herath took two for 48 in 20 overs on the first day and is probably going to play even more of a role in the second innings. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 