When you ve been travelling for a while you realise there are times when tourists get coaxed into doing cringeworthy things. I don t think it s our fault per say. I just think we are fed cliched images of various destinations and the things we should do when we visit. It s especially prevalent in the Third World, where people are doing their darndest to make an honest living. This first became apparent to me when I visited Sri Lanka. I can t tell you how many times a taxi driver would offer to take me to see turtles in captivity or how I let out a silent eish when I saw tourists swarm around snake charmers who were lugging snakes around in little baskets, traumatising the poor reptiles all for a quick buck. I think that part of this sensitivity to the way animals are treated comes from being South African and knowing how important it is to preserve our wildlife. The fact that rhinos could become extinct in our lifetime is devastating. We are protective over our animals, including our elephants. Which leads me to question why you would want to ride on an elephant? I never understood why people ride elephants in Asia. I don t think they were built to be ridden and they re such sensitive creatures. You would never attempt to ride an elephant in South Africa so why is it fine in Thailand? It s particularly strange because elephants are revered as spiritual animals yet are often chained and beaten. I ve seen locals walk on beaches with exotic animals, such as monkeys and lemurs that they keep as pets so that they can charge tourists to take photos with them. Imagine someone was doing that on your local beach. You can bet that someone would report them to the authorities. So why do so many people think it s okay in another country? Why is it fine to pose with a tiger so drugged out that it doesn t know if it s Arthur or Martha but it s not okay when hunters come and shoot our wildlife and pose with them as trophies? Surely it s one and the same thing? I try and tell friends and acquaintances not to support these industries when they visit particular places. I do it because I care. Not because I think I m better than anyone. Often it gets misconstrued and I can see that inner monologue of ooooh, he thinks he knows it all because he s travelled so often as people politely smile and ignore my advice. I ve never ridden an elephant but I have had the unforgettable experience of visiting an elephant conservation park where I fed, cleaned and enjoyed giving them a mud bath. That meant so much more to me than sitting atop one ever would. The fact that the conservancy is often fully booked says that more people are becoming conscious of the effects of their tourism. One day I hope it will be the norm, instead of the exception. Dustin Jordan | Image: Supplied &nbsp; For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.