Wits University s announcement of an 8% fee hike for 2017, will not be taken lightly by students protesting for free education to be realised in their lifetime. In fact, further disruptions by the #FeesMustFall movement can only be anticipated, according to Wits Student Representative Council (SRC) secretary-general David Manabile. Manabile, reacting to the announcement made on Monday, accused the institution of being hypocritical in their timing of talks with the university council, which he attended once the past Wednesday. The majority of students were in their homes at villages and townships, he said. We are saddened by the recent move. They only consulted us once last Wednesday. We did not attend Friday s council meeting because we were unprepared. But Manabile said the SRC had reiterated its stance in calling for a moratorium on fee increments until there is free education for students. It s the marginalised and poor who are affected. We are not happy. Any logically thinking person will say there will be abnormalities and unrest, come January. This was a point in time for the university to redeem itself. Unrests could occur during registration processes next year, said Manabile. Students cannot afford this 8%. It s really a worrying factor. We will anticipate a crisis. Some students are already coming to our offices as they owe fees. One can only imagine what could happen with this extra burden on our backs. The zero fees movement was justified, but had been previously hijacked by elements of rowdiness , Manabile said. Any mass movement seems to be hijacked by elements of rowdiness. Its begins as peaceful protests, but we always find ourselves in non-peaceful protest. We urge students who embark on another protest for it to be peaceful so we gain sympathy from the public and are not seen as hooligans. ALSO READ: ANC veterans want separate consultative conference Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel said in a statement it was decided fees would be increased by an average of 8% for tuition and residence fees. An 8% increase is also applicable for international student fees. The only exception is for postgraduate programmes run in the Wits School of Governance, where tuition fees will increase by 9.5%. These increases are in line with the recommendations made by the state in September this year, she said. The university has no choice but to increase fees if it is to remain financially sustainable, as academics and professional and administrative staff need to be remunerated, books and journals need to be purchased (many in foreign currency), utilities need to be paid and infrastructure needs to be maintained. In addition, the university will accommodate the costs of insourcing and the new ICT renewal project from 2017. Patel said the decision was recommended by management and the Financial Committee (FinCo) of the university and approved by council after consultation with the elected SRC. The SRC is represented on FinCo and council and had requested a 0% increase in tuition fees for 2017. Their input was deliberated extensively before the final decision was made. Wits will do all that it can to seek bursaries and scholarships for as many students as possible. She also pointed to the state compensation for the 0% increase for the 2016 academic year amounted to approximately R146 million. But we have been recently informed that the 2016 fee increase will now be rolled into the subsidy, the net effect of which is that our subsidy increase for 2017 will be only 2.5%. This equates to a net decline in income of approximately R54 million for 2017 from the state. Meanwhile, The Tshwane University of Technology announced in October that there will be no fee increase next year. The fee adjustment for 2017 for National Student Financial Aid Scheme-qualifying and missing middle students will be funded by the department of higher education and training. The university will absorb the remaining fee adjustment percentage of self-funded students, spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said. De Ruyter said the university and the students representative council signed a memorandum of agreement confirming there would not be a fee increment for the 2017 academic year. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. &nbsp; &nbsp;