The tension and even a possible breakaway in the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans&#8217; Association (MKMVA) should not come as a surprise, as it symbolises a continuation of factionalism within the structures of the ANC and its alliance partners, SACP and Cosatu, a political expert says. The MKMVA has become the latest ANC structure to show signs of a crack that could even lead to a split. ALSO READ: Fired MP takes the EFF to court The crack showed when a concerned group of Umkhonto weSizwe (MK) veterans dissociated themselves from the decision by the association s chairperson, Kebby Maphatsoe, to give awards to people associated with the Jacob Zuma faction, such as the SABC s Hlaudi Motsoeneng, SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni and Eskom s former CEO Brian Molefe, to recognise their roles in society&#8217;s transformation. Ironically, the same people are linked to a manoeuvre by the Gupta family to capture the state. The MK members decided to boycott the awards ceremony, spearheaded by Maphatsoe. In turn, Maphatsoe called for his supporters in the MKMVA to boycott a meeting called by the concerned group s Veterans National Council to tackle problems that have beset the ruling party, held at Nasrec Arena, south of Johannesburg at the weekend. The gathering was addressed by ANC NEC member and the party s former political strategist, Joel Netshitenzhe, and former MK chief-of-staff and ex-commander of the SANDF Siphiwe Nyanda. Maphatsoe is seen as pulling MK veterans towards the Zuma faction in the name of defending the party. In September, Maphatsoe s group tried to prevent a group of youth under the #OccupyLuthuliHouse campaign from marching to Luthuli House to demand Zuma s resignation. Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni said the exchange between the MKMVA groups and any possible break-up of the association should not come as a surprise. He said the situation should be seen against backdrop of the on-going factionalisation of the ANC, SACP and Cosatu. He said President Zuma, who needs to extricate the ANC from its current morass, is compromised as a subject of the succession debate and, therefore, the source of the problem. This will have a negative effect on the president, because he may be relying on Maphatsoe, who is seen by some as steering this ship into trouble waters, Fikeni said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.