Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga is not ready to appoint a new city manager as interviews and appointment processes are ongoing. He has requested an extension of the contract of the acting city manager. Speaking at a special council sitting at Sammy Marks Square on Wednesday, Msimanga called on council s support for a 60-day extension as the panel needed to apply its collective mind diligently ahead of the appointment . He asked council to not rush the permanent appointment as it was a vital position to bring promised change to the city. This will be by remanding the current acting city manager in her position until such time as the panel has come to a determination as to the best candidate for such an onerous job to make our city prosperous again, he told council. Msimanga appointed Lindiwe Kwele as acting city manager, following the sudden resignation of municipal manager Jason Ngobeni in August. He requested Kwele to remain until the end of January while potential candidates, their CVs, interviews and experience were properly interrogated and considered. This is for the sole purpose of ensuring that no mistakes are made, because it is ultimately in the best interests of the people of Tshwane, who ought to be at the apex of all our consciousness when making critical decisions and appointments such as this. Last month, Msimanga said council approved the composition of the relevant appointment panel to conduct interviews for shortlisted candidates. The panel, in terms of the law, would consist of the mayor, a councillors and an external person someone who has experience of the vacancy, preferably a university academic. It is common cause that this takes time. Some changes are made faster than others, owing to processes that ought to be diligently observed at all times in the interests of good governance and cultivating a city that works and works efficiently. I reiterate that the appointment of a permanent city manager for our great city is an important one. Council approved the reappointment of Kwele for a further 60 days. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.