Springbok Sevens coach Neil Powell on Thursday stuck with the tried and tested squad that won in Dubai last weekend for this weekend&#8217;s Cape Town Sevens tournament. The 12 players that were crowned champions in the desert last weekend, will again start in Cape Town, with Shakes Soyizwapi the reserve player that will replace any injured Blitzbok during the tournament. The South Africans are looking to defend the title they won in last year s inaugural tournament, as well as a fourth consecutive title at home, after also winning the last two tournament hosted in Port Elizabeth in 2013 and 2014. With a combined total of 375 tournament caps, the Blitzboks is the most experienced team among the 16 contenders. Also read: Blitzboks stalwarts channel disappointments positively We are fortunate to be able to again field an experienced squad, said Powell. There were niggles from Dubai, but those were expected as the guys have not played for a couple of months. Luckily for us, we came back without any serious injuries and lots of belief in our systems. Powell introduced some special measures this week to try and re-focus the team&#8217;s goals and mindset. &#8220;We had to start from scratch again. The players are experienced enough to be able to do that themselves, so I hope the triggers we provided will be successful, said Powell. South Africa will face Russia, USA and Australia in Pool A on a tough opening day. We need to be sharp on Saturday, as it is a dangerous pool, with all three teams capable of beating each other, said the Blitzboks&#8217; mentor. Springbok Sevens captain, Philip Snyman, admitted that expectations at home are always huge. We realise our fans are looking at us to deliver the goods and we want nothing else, he said. We only have this great opportunity to play at home once every year and are determined to give it our best shot. Blitzboks squad: Chris Dry, Philip Snyman, Dylan Sage, Kwagga Smith, Werner Kok, Kyle Brown, Branco du Preez, Rosco Speckman, Justin Geduld, Cecil Afrika, Ruhan Nel, Seabelo Senatla, Shakes Soyizwapi. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.