The department of basic education on Friday dismissed as unfounded reports that it had lowered the pass mark for mathematics to just 20%. A week ago the department issued a circular announcing the reduction in the maths pass requirement for pupils in grades seven to nine. The announcement prompted a public outcry, with some suggesting that in future, learners would get a pass mark for merely attending classes. However, on Friday, the department said in a statement that there was no such thing as 20% pass rate and thus no change in the department s progression policy. There is a widespread misunderstanding on the department of basic education s decision to condone learners who did not meet the requisite mathematics requirements for progression to the next grade in the senior phase, said spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga. Mhlanga explained that if a pupil failed a language they would fail the year, but said they could fail maths and still pass and go to the next grade. To get a pass mark in languages and other subjects, a pupil must score 40% and above. We are all aware that not everyone is mathematically inclined. Some people are more inclined towards the arts, others are better with technical subjects making this policy unfair to those who are forced to take mathematics but are not good at it, Mhlanga said. Mhlanga said the department took note of the concerns that learners who could go to the next grade based on meeting all other pass criteria were being held back in some grades unnecessarily. He said the department decided to take the policy under review. It has been shown that grade repetition can lead to increased school drop out, increased truancy and a number of other adverse effects, said Mhlanga. While the policy is under review, a decision was taken to condone those who did not meet the 40 percent criteria in mathematics to the next grade if they met all other pass requirements and obtained more than 20% in mathematics. Mhlanga said this decision was applicable to senior phase learners and only applicable for the 2016 learners while the department reviewed the policy. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.