The polygraph undergone by Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) head Robert McBride has indicated he was being truthful when he denied any knowledge of Hawks boss Major General Prince Mokotedi s allegations of treason, espionage, conspiracy to commit murder, corruption, intimidation and harassment, defeating the ends of justice and tax evasion. According to the report issued by the National Voice Stress &amp; Polygraph Network and seen by The Citizen, Mr McBride was invited to CONFIDENTIALLY (sic) share observations made regarding the Test Issues, as the concealment of guilty knowledge may lead to negative results and consequences. Mr McBride stated that he is not involved in any of the allegations as stated in Mr Mokotedi s affidavit, the report stated. Two tests were done. The first Truth Verification Examination was for the purpose of determining the truthfulness of a Statement Mr McBride signed to verify the correctness of the copy of Mr Mokotedi s affidavit received from Mr Paul O Sullivan s office, to be a true and unaltered copy of the original affidavit as used to open a docket against Mr McBride and Others, on Monday 2016-12-12. The copy received had no Commissioner of Oath signature, nor the signature of Mr Prince Nkitsing Mokotedi, the report stated. The second Truth Verification Examination was for the purpose of determining the examinee s possible involvement in, part of, had any knowledge of any persons who were involved in, the allegations as described in the affidavit of Mr Mokotedi. Both test results stated no deception was indicated. It is the opinion of the examiner that the examinee was being truthful when answering the relevant questions, the report concludes. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangweni Mulaudzi would only say, Congratulations to him. McBride also had no comment, saying the results spoke for themselves. Mokotedi s statement is long on allegations of treason, yet short on details surrounding the corruption, intimidation and harassment, defeating the ends of justice and tax evasion. These details are generally required in an A1 statement, which forms the basis of the charge sheet presented in court, something junior constables learn in police college, a police source confirmed. Mokotedi claimed McBride, forensic consultant Paul O&#8217;Sullivan, City of Johannesburg anti-corruption head Shadrack Sibiya, and representatives of the DA and AfriForum had discussed during a braai how they would target Lieutenant Generals Khomotso Phahlane and Berning Ntlemeza, Mokotedi, National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams and head of the State Security Agency, Arthur Fraser. Mokotedi states McBride and the others were targeting these individuals that &#8230; are close to or are supporters of the President of South Africa, President Jacob Zuma . The attendees agreed that Mr Paul O Sullivan should collect information and dig dirt that would implicate the above-mentioned persons in any kind of transgressions especially on corruption and other acts of criminality, said Mokotedi in his statement, while failing to clarify why these were bad things. According to Mokotedi s statement, cases against Ntlemeza and Phahlane could be with the National Prosecuting Authority by January. amandaw@citizen.co.za