Defending champion Charl Schwartzel and Irishman Paul Dunne held a share of the lead after the first round of the Alfred Dunhill Championship at Leopard Creek on Thursday, after shooting six-under-par 66s. They took contrasting routes to the top of the leaderboard, with Dunne having four birdies on his first eight holes, followed by a double-bogey, and then another four birdies coming in. The 24-year-old birdied two of the par-fives, five par-fours and the par-three seventh hole. Schwartzel, the winner at Leopard Creek in 2004, 2012, 2013 and 2015, made a slower start and was only one-under-par at the turn, his only birdie coming on the par-three fifth hole. But South Africa s number two ranked golfer was on fire on the back nine, starting with successive birdies on the 10th and 11th holes and then further gains on the three par-fives coming in the 13th, 15th and 18th holes. It was good with the Driver and I hit a lot of good shots today. My iron-play was very good today, I hit a lot of shots close, gave myself a lot of chances and my putting has been getting better each day. I feel if I can get the ball in play off the tee, with how my irons are feeling and how good the greens are, I ll give myself loads of chances, Dunne said. I wasn t doing anything wrong really and my game was feeling good, but it was just a matter of getting the execution I was looking for and on the back nine it came together nicely, Schwartzel said. There are a few opportunities on the back nine, with those three par-fives, but I thought two or three birdies would be a good start. There are lots of birdies to be made out there, but it still takes good swings and good execution and you can t force it otherwise this course will bite you. You don t want to put yourself out of it, which you can very easily do, so on the front nine I was just really grinding to make pars and when I did find some good shots, I capitalised by making birdies. The wind never really picked up on the opening day and the course, set in prime bushveld so typical of Africa, had also been softened by a heavy thunderstorm the night before, so scoring was good. Six golfers managed to shoot five-under-par 67s &#8211; Sweden s Alexander Bjork, South Africans Jean Hugo and Brandon Stone, the talented Scott Jamieson, four-time European Tour winner Pablo Larrazabal and English rookie Max Orrin. South Africans Jaco Ahlers, Dean Burmester, Dylan Frittelli, Justin Harding, Richard Sterne and Colin Nel are in the nine-man group on four-under-par, while Branden Grace shot 69 but endured a tough day. Grace made a roaring start with four birdies in his first six holes, but then his putter went cold and it was a frustrated figure who deposited his approach shots into the water for bogeys on both the 15th and 18th holes.