The much anticipated head-to-head debate by five contenders for the African Union Commission (AUC) chairperson position has turned out to be a damp squib. The debate, was a precursor to elections scheduled for January 30 and 31 during the 28th ordinary session of the assembly of heads of state and government in Addis Ababa. Organised by the African Union Leadership Academy (AULA), the first debate was expected to be lively and informative. Instead, the candidates were given questions prior to the debate and they read responces to the questions. We did not have much time to prepare. We were given a short notice about the whole debate but given it s the first I think we did good, Kenya s candidate Amina C Mohammed told African News Agency after the debate. Will this make any difference on the decision? Obviously not. But this is a great opportunity for us to speak directly to our nation and allowing people to understand what the AU actually does, she said. Many expected the debate, which was streamed live not just in Africa but all over the world, to have shown what Africa is all about. Nonetheless, Mohammed said the debate had value in exposing the candidates to the public through questions. We heard a lot about Agenda 2063 tonight and people now know that agenda is real and it has within it issues that are critically important to them. An analyst who spoke to the African News Agency on condition of anonymity, said the debate was an opener and he hoped there would be more such debates in future. However, it is very disappointing to see candidates who we believe will lead the union to greatness were not even prepared to memorise their own answers for the questions they were given in advance. Whatever happened to speaking directly to the people? They did not even make eye contact with the audience at the hall, let alone to the rest watching everywhere. We were expecting follow-up questions from the audience after their presentation but none of that happened which left us with more questions on pressing issues of the continent, he said. Many burning issues should have been addressed, including the International Criminal Court (ICC), migration from conflict areas such as South Sudan, and security threats, he said. Current AU chief Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will step down after declining to serve a second four-year term. She will be replaced by one of the five contenders from Kenya, Equatorial Guinea, Chad, Senegal, and Botswana. By tradition, the post rotates between Anglophone and Francophone countries. Dlamini-Zuma, from English-speaking South Africa, succeeded French-speaking Jean Ping in 2012. Candidates from French-speaking Chad and Senegal will be in a prime position if this principle is observed once more. Critics have rejected the notion that choosing a successor should be based on a rotational system, saying that the best candidate should be chosen irrespective of their origin. The debate was dominated by issues related to women s involvement in decision making for conflict resolution, calls for more youth participation in the AU, greater integration between member nations, financing for the AU, and to a lesser extent youth migration and how to curb it. Rather than debating differing viewpoints, the candidates spoke directly to the audience and were largely in agreement about the continent s pressing issues which were rounded up in four selected questions. Kenya has been lobbying hard for support for its candidate, who joined the race after three candidates failed to muster enough votes in July. Senegal s Abdoulaye Bathily, currently the United Nations special representative for Central Africa and another newcomer to the race, called for greater industrialisation of the continent to solve the problem of youth unemployment. While addressing the issue of intra-African trade, all the candidates lamented the low figures, saying more had to be done. I would encourage members states to reform their visa regulations everything goes back to the visa, Botswana s Pelonomi Venson-Moitoi said. Chadian Foreign Minister Moussa Faki Mahamat said: We can t keep arguing 60 years after independence that we cannot cross a border even if we have family on the other side of the border. The candidates also expressed much regret about financial dependence on the outside world for a continent that, according to them, had potential.