While you and I claim to be so busy at work that we cannot even take lunch, there are those who have way too much time on their hands. These are people who come up with the world s craziest commemorative days, and it seems as if there more people like them, than us. I had no idea that absolutely that every single day, month, week and year, has been assigned a purpose, but mostly to serve those it benefits. For example, when you and I will be ushering in the New Year, there are those who have declared that the 1st of January as Z Day. This is for people whose names or surname start with the letter z . As you can imagine, when it comes to things being done in alphabetical order, they are always last in line, hence their own special day. The 9th of January has been named as static electricity day. This is celebrated by wearing rubber shoes, not using moisturiser (helping to provide a dry environment for the static to build) and then proceeding to shock whoever your victim is. Then there is the 3rd of February, which is international Carrot Cake Day. This was probably pushed through by those who cannot have carrots in their raw state, but can suddenly eat a whole cake when they are turned into carbohydrates School reports will be fetched today and parents will be at loggerheads with their young ones over their overall marks. As usual, the parents will not be impressed by the various letters, ranging from f to D , while the pupils will be pleading their cases why they could not attain the letters from C to A. Unfortunately, Forgive mom and dad day is only on the 18th of March, so that serves no use to anyone at that time of the year. Then there are days that are simply put to make everyone laugh, as they are impossible for some of us to follow. March 16 is the day when most women have to curb that urge to pout, put forward their best side and smile, as it is No selfie day. I can tell you now that selfies are going nowhere anytime soon, no matter who does what. In fact, Samsung has seen a gap in this industry and has developed a front-facing flash, just to make sure people always have enough light for their selfies and groupies. The 30th of March is a day motorists are going to start appreciating, as it is take a walk in the Park Day . This is because, according to Wheels24, of the various speed limits which have been drafted by the powers that be. While driving in urban areas, you will have to reduce your speed from 60 to 40km/h, from 100 to 80km/h in rural areas and from 120 to 100km/h on freeways (running through a residential area). You will be driving so slowly even the people walking in the park will overtake you. Thamsanqa Mkwanazi. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.