2016 saw the deaths of much-loved personalities, some sudden while others were shocking. From the sudden death of race driver Gugu Zulu, to the passing of Kwaito legend Mandoza, below is a round-up of five stars we lost in 2016. 1) In March, South Africa lost socialite and 3Sum member, Koyo Bala who died at a Cape Town hospital after losing the battle against anal and colorectal cancer. Bala was 37 years old at the time of his death. Amstel Makwane,Koyo Bala and Somizi Mhlongo at the MTN SAMA Awards held in Fourways Mall. (Photo by Gallo Images/City Press/Andrew Mthimkhulu) READ MORE: Tributes pour in for Koyo Bala 2) South Africans were shocked to learn of the death of veteran actor, Nyembezi Kunene in June. Kunene was known for roles in Emzini Wezinsizwa, Generations as well as Scandal. Kunene died following a long illness. Nyembezi Kunene (Photo by Gallo Images/Drum/Natalie Payne) READ MORE: SA mourns death of actor Nyembezi Kunene 3) Another shocking celebrity death in 2016 was that of celebrated South African race car driver Gugu Zulu, who died on Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania after experiencing breathing problems. Zulu, along with his wife Letshego, were part of a group of South Africans who were part of the Trek4Mandela expedition. The rally champion was 38 years old at the time of his passing. Gugu Zulu. Photo: Jackie Clausen READ MORE: Gugu Zulu dies while climbing Kilimanjaro 4) In September South Africa lost yet another legend, this time with the death of Kwaito star, Mduduzi Mandoza Tshabalala. The award-winning singer, known for hits such as Nkalakatha, died after a long battle with brain cancer. Mandoza was 38 years old at the time of his death. Mandoza. Gallo Images. READ MORE: Kwaito legend Mandoza has died 5) The most recent and shocking death was that of gospel star, Sfiso Ncwane who died in December. The Kulungile Baba hitmaker passed away from kidney failure following a short illness. Ncwane was 37 years old at the time of his death. Late gospel singer Sfiso Ncwane. READ MORE: Gospel legend Sfiso Ncwane has died For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.