The Hawks are on a manhunt to trace the alleged kingpin behind the brothel in Klerksdorp, in the North West province, from which 26 teenage girls and women were rescued on Friday. A post on the South African Police Service Facebook page stated that at least 19 men found on the premises were taken in for questioning and further processing, however, no arrests have been made at this stage. &#8220;Investigations are also underway to determine if any of the men taken in for questioning are linked to the brothel,&#8221; read the post. Other government departments in particular the Department of Social Development, Home Affairs, South African Police Service and the National Prosecuting Authority have been roped in to assist in the ongoing probe. &#8220;The department of social development has been requested to see to the victims and see if they require any psychological support,&#8221; read the post. The National Head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Mthandazo Ntlemeza further commended the investigation team for acting on the information swiftly and warned young women to be careful, especially now during the festive season and towards the start of a new year. &#8220;People get desperate for work that they ignore all the signs of a job that sounds too good to be true. These perpetrators prey on desperate job seekers and lure them under false pretences. We relent on our mandate and I have requested out North West team to dig deep to trace and arrest those responsible for this despicable act,&#8221; he said. December 16: 12.25pm: The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) rescued 26 women from a brothel in Klerksdorp, in the North West province, on the Day of Reconciliation, December 16. According to a post on the South African Police Service Facebook page, the women were aged between 14 and 37. The Hawks followed a tip-off that the premises was used as a brothel. &#8220;The females are South Africans and come from different parts of the country; Northern Cape, KZN, Free state, Johannesburg and Eastern Cape,&#8221; read the police&#8217;s Facebook post. &#8220;A total of 18 South African men and one Nigerian man were found at the premises and they are currently being interviewed.&#8221; Police said investigations into the incident would continue. The women and men lined up on the premises. Picture: South African Police Service Facebook page. Inside a building on the premises. Picture: South African Police Service Facebook page. The men lined up. Picture: South African Police Service Facebook page. Inside a building on the Klerksdorp premises. Picture: South African Police Service Facebook page. The Klerksdorp premises. Picture: South African Police Service Facebook page. The post is receiving much attention from Facebook users. It has already been shared over 300 times in two hours since it was posted on Friday morning. Many Facebook users congratulated the Hawks. Caxton News Service More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.