When in her primary-school days Alyssa Conley had been the subject of rumours that she outruns the boys even when barefooted, she never dreamt of an athletics career at the highest level. But this year, the 25-year-old University of Johannesburg Club member stood in the green-and-gold colours of South Africa, competing on the world s greatest stage, at the Rio Olympics. It was a far cry from the hard Highveld grounds of the Wilhelmina Hoskins and Meredale primary schools, where Conley first discovered her running talent. Such was her impact then, that she was made to run against the boys and had no problems breaking the tape first. My earliest memories are running the boys leg in the mixed relays and beating them, said Conley. I had so much fun beating the guys and they just couldn t understand how I was that quick. In those early days, she ran without spikes, which led to her teachers nicknaming her Zola Budd , after South Africa s famous long-distance runner, who ran without shoes in the Eighties. She first made an impact at international level at the age of 16, reaching the 100m and 200m finals at the 2007 World Youth Championships in Ostrava, and two years later she charged to three medals in the 100m, 200m and 4x100m relays at the African Junior Championships in Bambous. ALSO READ: Oops! Saru to cough up for their doctors Hougaard-mistake After an enforced seven-year hiatus from top-flight athletics, due to multiple injury troubles which had resulted in hip surgery, Conley made a spectacular comeback this year to establish her place as one of the country s top women s sprinters. Her campaign was capped by winning the national 100m and 200m titles in Stellenbosch in April, including a surprise victory over national record holder Carina Horn in the shorter event. After qualifying over both distances for the Rio Olympics, she was eliminated in the first-round heats at the Games, though she would have gained valuable experience at senior international level. Rewarded for her achievements this year by being named Gauteng Sportswoman of the Year at an awards ceremony in October, Conley said she was overwhelmed with joy at the honour, especially given the strength of the competition in the province. It is only by the grace of God that I m back on the track injury-free and that I ve had such a great year. This recognition is definitely a step up that ladder. Gauteng is such a huge sporting province and to be named Sportswoman of the Year is a big honour. Conley, who lives in Meredale, attended Mondeor High before doing a sports psychology degree at UJ, followed by an honours in sports management. She now works for Nike Africa as a product specialist. On the track, her target is to run the 100m dash in under 11 seconds and to make the finals at next year s IAAF World Championships in London. She set personal bests this year in the 100m (11.23) and 200m (22.84) sprints the latter effort earning her a silver medal at the African Championships in Durban. Having resurrected her career in just one season, she now has her sights firmly set on major international championships. In the long term, I want a medal at the 2018 Commonwealth Games and the 2020 Olympics. I also want to break the 200m national record, said Conley, referring to the mark of 22.06 set by Evette de Klerk in 1989. Conley s focus is purely on athletics, but she is a versatile sportswoman, having played badminton at national and netball at regional level. She spends time off with family and friends, while a post as a Sunday-school teacher allows her to give back to the community. But I love speed, so I also take a big interest in fast cars, as well as the old classics. Her family and friends, according to Conley, provide a strong support base. They have all played a role in inspiring me to keep chasing my dreams and goals. Having started at UJ in 2008, Conley said the varsity staff were also influential in her development, while her sister Simone, who was at the Rio Olympics as the biokineticist for the SA Under-23 men s soccer team, has been her role model. She has led the way in showing me how to work hard for my dreams and goals, says the affable young star. Additional reporting by Full Stop Communications For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.