A case of theft is being investigated after a handbag was stolen from an unsuspecting diner at RocoMamas at the Lifestyle Centre in Centurion. Arielle Pieterse and her three friends were at the restaurant on November 29. Then at 7.15pm, the video footage shows two women and a man pretending to be in conversation when they were in actual fact stealing the bag, Rekord Centurion reported. Pieterse s ID, driver s licence, bank card, camera and car keys were in the bag, but she said it was the loss of things of sentimental value in the handbag, such as a letter from her boyfriend and a key ring, that was more heartbreaking. These are the things that can t be replaced, said Pieterse. After we ate, I noticed that my bag was gone. We immediately asked the manager to see the video footage. Pieterse s father posted the video and photos of the suspects on Facebook, which got the desired response after Facebook users came forward with information. All leads are passed on to the investigating officer, and we are working hard to ensure that these three don t stay in business for much longer, said Pieterse. Wierdabrug police spokesperson Captain Agnes Huma confirmed the incident and advised residents to make sure they look after their handbags at restaurants and malls. Stay alert, keep your valuables close, preferably on your lap. Simply just stay vigilant, said Pieterse. The management of the restaurant gave permission for the video to be used and cooperated with the investigation. Dylan Rusteberg, co-owner of RocoMamas Centurion, said he deplored the crime. We immediately released the security video in the hope to expedite any chance of recovering the customer s possessions. Rusteberg said the restaurant had offered its full cooperation to the authorities. We wish to ensure the public that the safety of our customers remains an absolute priority to the business. We urge everyone to remain vigilant and cautious at any establishment they visit, especially in the festive period. Anyone with information on the suspects can send an email to crimeleads@webmail.co.za or contact the Wierdabrug police. &#8211; Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter .