According to a front-page report on Sunday in City Press, the suspended national police commissioner, Riah Phiyega will become the third top in a row to leave the job under a cloud. The Claassen Board of Inquiry that was set up to probe her fitness to hold office reportedly found that she had taken the decision to hide facts about what really happened at the Marikana massacre in 2012 and had also misled the Marikana Commission of Inquiry. As a result, it&#8217;s understood she has been found unfit to hold office. According to the papers&#8217; sources, Phiyega is planning to challenge the Claassen findings in court. She reportedly wants to &#8220;clear her name&#8221;. Testimony that had been made against her, and which appears to have been accepted by the inquiry, was that Phiyega had instructed the police spokesperson to change the police&#8217;s media statement that was issued after the massacre in order to present the massacre as one incident and not two. This was critical, because although a case could have been made for the police defending themselves at what has become known as Scene 1, at Scene 2 there was evidence that police had hunted fleeing mine workers and shot them in the back. City Press reports that many of them &#8220;were killed while hiding behind rocks&#8221;. Damning findings have reportedly also been made against Phiyega for her alleged decision to hide the true decision made by the police ahead of the massacre on how they would deal with striking workers. According to evidence leader at at the Claassen inquiry, Advocate Ismail Jamie SC, she may be guilty of murder or culpable homicide if she could have anticipated that any strikers were likely to be killed as a result of police action. Jamie added that if she had not been able to anticipate it, then the only other conclusion to be drawn was that she had been either incompetent or grossly negligent. Her refusal to submit to cross-examination had also damaged her case, according to a source. The paper also reported that a new permanent police commissioner will need to be appointed, and this process will be under way this week. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.