West Rand Municipality mayor Boyce Maneli says it does not matter that their budget is small as the municipality but with faith and plan of action &#8220;we will also begin a revolution&#8221;. With this statement, Maneli took the cue from the late Cuban Revolutionary leader, Fidel Castro, who died this week. Maneli quoted Castro&#8217;s statement where he said &#8220;I began a revolution with 82 men. If I had to do it again, I will do it with 10 or 15 and absolute faith. It doesn&#8217;t matter how small you are as long as you have faith and plan of action&#8221;. Maneli, who was giving his 100 days report to the council on Thursday, said a procurement process is underway to commence the Regional Integrated Plan which will ensure effective and efficient management of regional infrastructure in the district. He said the district held 42 Ntirhisano War Room outreach programmes and serviced 55 000 people on site. Ntirhisano was initiated by the provincial government to reach out to people to hear their needs and deliver accordingly. A total of 598 bicycles were distributed as part of the 2017 Mayoral Back-to-School Campaign to learners in identified rural schools under the Shova Kalula programme while 583 pupils received in-service education to prevent teenage pregnancy. ALSO READ: Malema: The EFF will run SA like Cuba if elected to power A total of 10 wheel chairs were donated to people with disabilities in the build0up to Disability Day celebrations held on November 25 in Kokosi, Merafong. Maneli said one of one agreements are ready to be signed between him and members of the mayoral committee. The agreements are meant to hold the executives accountable for service delivery they promised to the people. He said five fire engines have been commissioned to improve response to fire and rescue calls with more coming early next year. He said a door-to-door campaign was conducted and 252 000 community members reached on HIV-Aids education to encourage them to know their HIV status. &#8220;In partnership with Gold-fields, Thusanang Informal Settlement receive a clinic,&#8221; Maneli said. The mayor also announced that 883 housed were allocated in Kagiso, Westonaria Borwa with the next phase coming in 2017. He said two sites have been identified in each town to implement the &#8221;non-racial, non-sexist integrated cities for mix development over and above sites earmarked for social housing in the district&#8221;. As part of social cohesion through sports, arts and culture, cultural day and cultural activities and sporting events were held in Merafong City, Mogale City, a visit to the Maropeng heritage site and an arts and music festival in Coronation. Also Kasi games activities were hosted in Toekomsrus. &#8220;We have created job opportunities through Extended Public Works Programmes (EPWP), 60 people have benefited from both the Donaldson Dam and the Merafong Flora Project,&#8221; Maneli said. He said the municipality has assisted a young Kagiso writer Yeyethu Tshekela to publish her book titled &#8220;You Are So Close&#8221;. They also assisted financially two students whose degrees were withheld by Monash University because of outstanding fees. An agri-park was launched to assist emerging farmers to access entry into established market. Two co-ops including one for disabled people are already in operation at the park. A total of 20 emerging farmer were assisted with land preparation nad four co-ops supported with information while an agreement were concluded on proto-type farming. Tractor driver are currently being trained in the district. &#8220;In addition to the outcome we have facilitated the establishment of a regional centre for the Gauteng Innovation Ekasi Hub. This Hub will assist township entrepreneurs with incubation programmes. &#8220;In addition to the outcome, jointly with Tshepo 500 000 and NYDA we have developed a programme targeting unemployed youth with grade 12 plus. This programme will empower them with life skills and entrepreneurial development. A total of 150 youth have been trained in Kokosi,&#8221; Maneli said. He announced that a process is underway to appoint a municipal manager and a letter has been received from the Local government MEC. As part of internet connectivity to roll out broadband for community access, 92 sites have connected in all municipalities under the district including libraries, clinics, Thusong centres and municipal buildings. A recruitment process for the appointment of a new board for the West Rand Development Agency will commence soon. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.