There is a top-of-the-table clash in the domestic T20 Challenge to start the weekend as the Titans host the Warriors at SuperSport Park in Centurion on Friday. It is a clash that pits together the best sides by a long way in the 2016 competition both sides have just lost once. The hosts, however, were beaten for the first time in seven outings on Wednesday when they went down to the Dolphins in Durban. The loss came despite having amassed an impressive 170, but coach Mark Boucher was not too concerned. We can t over-analyse what happened on Wednesday, he said. I think Cameron Delport played a very good innings, as can happen in this format when one good innings can take a game away from the opposition. But it s not the end of the world, that s the nature of the T20 beast. We re not down and out and we ll be looking to bounce back. But there are suggestions that the Warriors are in the ascendancy after demolishing the VKB Knights by eight wickets on Wednesday for their third straight win. The Warriors are our focus now, they re second and are on a winning streak, said Boucher. But we haven t played each other yet and we ll look to beat them twice, starting with tomorrow and try and make sure we end on top of the log. Tabraiz Shamsi is available for the hosts after his Standard Bank Proteas debut in the final Test against Australia recently, while Dane Piedt could also feature. The match is the only one of the weekend for the Titans, who have also played two more matches than the Warriors. The men from the Eastern Cape were in blistering form when they blew away the VKB Knights for just 93. We re quite pleased with the start, but we re also well aware that we re only halfway through our games, said Warriors boss Malibongwe Maketa added. We need to make sure we build on this now. It will be a tough clash against a Titans team that everyone around the country has the highest respect for. But we re confident and looking forward to the game. The match may come too soon for their South Africa star Kyle Abbott, although the fast bowler may feature when they play the Highveld Lions on Sunday. African News Agency (ANA)