Hardened criminal Ananias Mathe, who died on Wednesday, deserved the death penalty for the crimes he committed, the National Freedom Party (NFP) has said. The NFP sends condolences to the family and relatives of the late Ananias Mathe. However, the NFP strongly believes that dangerous criminals like Mathe should have got a death penalty a long time ago for the serious crimes and murder he committed, the party said in a statement. Government could have saved a lot of state resources and time if it opted for the death penalty for similar cases. Taxpayers money spent daily on Mathe could have been used wisely. Mathe, a serial rapist and a notorious prison escape artist, died in hospital in KwaZulu-Natal after suffering from digestive complications , according to reports. He had been sentenced to 54 years in jail for rape, attempted murder, fraud and armed robbery in 2009 after a crime spree across various provinces in South Africa that lasted for a number of years. The Mozambican national escaped from custody in January 2005 and then, in 2006, he managed to escape from Pretoria C-Max prison. In 2013, he nearly managed to break out of Ebongweni C-Max prison in Kwazulu-Natal after using a hammer and chisel to break through the wall of his maximum security cell. The NFP said the country s justice and prison system was lacking when it came to dealing with serious crimes and urged government to hold a referendum on the death penalty. The death penalty is one of those topics that should be brought to the fore in order to get people s views on it. Others may feel that would be taking the country back and undermining the gains made through democratic processes, but the reality of the matter is that our country s justice system is failing the ordinary citizens, the NFP said. South Africa abolished the death penalty in 1995. The family of Annanias Mathe have been informed of his death and will be given an opportunity to collect his body after a postmortem has been completed. The KwaZulu-Natal department of correctional services provincial commissioner, Mnikelwa Nxele, confirmed Mathe s death, saying the officials had been in touch with his family as well as Mozambique s consul in Durban. We have informed the family and we have communicated with the consul. The family will have to be given the body, he said. African News Agency