Growing up deaf, Nyeleti Nokwazi wanted to be president of South Africa. Fast forward a few years and, while Nokwazi is not yet president, she is still a leader with the first Master of Arts degree by dissertation in South African Sign Language (SASL), awarded by Wits University. Nokwazi is the first Wits student to graduate using the marginalised language. I remember when I was in grade 6, one of my teachers asked me what I would like to be when I grow up, Nokwazi says. I wrote in my journal and stated that I wanted to be a president. Then one day I met that former teacher and she reminded me about my dream. I just laughed at that dream. But things changed when she and four other girls moved from St Vincent School for the Deaf to Parktown Girls High School, because they wanted to obtain a university exemption pass in matric. There was broadening and growth in my mind regarding my choice of career and I was able to think and choose a career I wanted. I realised that I would like to study SASL, because it intrigued me, says Nokwazi. That was when the former teacher who taught me SASL in high school started encouraging me. Matric exemption in hand, Nokwazi went off to Wits and a new direction in life. Things were not easy as the university used the foreign and local spoken languages during lecture times for speaking and writing. SASL was not easily accessible, says Nokwazi. I would have loved the lectures to be conducted in SASL when studying SASL courses. Thanks to the interpreters at least I did not feel very lost. It felt very weird, because I was used to writing in Signed English and now I had to use SASL in studying my MA. Being surrounded by thousands of hearing students didn t make varsity or making new friends any easier for the quiet student. I think there was some kind of a distance between me and them. Maybe we were afraid of each other and not knowing what to say to each other, Nokwazi says. Some would just stare at me and my friends when we used sign language to communicate as if they had never seen a deaf person before and that would also put me off. It took me a while to observe them and get to know them then I made a few friends. Of course, there is life outside the small campus community. I am from a very close-knit family. My family is dominated by women, says Nokwazi, adding she grew up in Johannesburg and sometimes visits her grandmother and other relatives at Bushbuckridge. Going to Parktown Girls was a difficult time for her parents as they had to pay for the services of an interpreter and Nokwazi says she felt guilty about it. Two long years of studying later and Nokwazi stepped out as a leader in her field. On the day of graduation I was feeling great and so happy. It was awesome when the acting Dean stopped me and spoke about my being the first deaf student to receive an MA degree, which was also the first introduction of MA in the Wits SASL department, Nokwazi says. The audience celebrated with me raising and waving their hands signing that I should shine. The would-be president-turned-activist now plans to use her degree to teach SASL and to encourage others to continue studying. I hope that I will teach SASL and contribute in fighting for its recognition so that it can be implemented across the country, Nokwazi says. I still feel that there is still a long way to go in the development of SASL and lots of fighting for its proper recognition alongside other official languages of South Africa. It is for all South Africans to join hands and make sure that we get what we want as far as our languages are concerned. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.