Tornadoes were spotted in Johannesburg and Mpumalanga this year and, while some were harmless, others caused devastation. The SA Weather Service recently said that South Africa&#8217;s risk of tornadoes has increased. Here&#8217;s a recap of five tornadoes The Citizen reported on this year: 1. Magaliesburg in Gauteng On July 26, Amin Hassam, owner of Koesterfontein Farm Glamping, captured the formation of a tornado from his Magaliesburg home: READ THE FULL STORY: WATCH: Tornado blows through Magaliesburg 2. Tembisa in Johannesburg Later on July 26, a major tornado swept through Tembisa, causing the roof of Phumlani Mall to collapse and injuring around 20 people. The tornado further destroyed the fence and carports at Tembisa Hospital, damaging about 20 vehicles that belonged to employees, and three ambulances. The tornado further caused part of the hospital&#8217;s roof to collapse and uprooted trees, but patients were spared injury. Shacks in the vicinity of the Tembisa Hospital near Olifantsfontein Road were also damaged by the tornado. READ MORE: 20 injured in tornado structural collapse The aftermath of the tornado in Tembisa. Photo: Emer-G-Med In the face of the destruction, social media users did not waste time in making memes from the photographs. This was one of the popular ones that circulated on Twitter: When a tornado hits your ex&#39;s house! #Thembisa #tornado pic.twitter.com/zLuEYC9vck &mdash; Lwandi (@ThatGuy_Lwandi) July 26, 2016 READ MORE: Twitter + tornado = memes 3. Ennerdale in Johannesburg More than 50 households were affected by a tornado that ripped several parts of Ennerdale in the south of Johannesburg in November. Spokesperson for Johannesburg emergency services Robert Mulaudzi said, of the affected houses, most of the roofs were damaged while walls collapsed as well. READ MORE: Tornado hits Ennerdale, affecting 50 households 4. Grootvlei in Mpumalanga On November 15, the SA Weather Service confirmed that a tornado occurred near Grootvlei in Mpumalanga. Locals were working in a building when they saw the tornado, but it started to peter out as it approached them. This was confirmed by a spokesperson of the Grootvlei police, Warrant Officer Andre van der Lith, who said that the tornado approached fast and then disappeared. No significant damage was caused. A tornado sweeps through Grootvlei. Picture: Heidelberg/Nigel Heraut. READ MORE: Mpumalanga tornado causes no significant damage in Grootvlei 5. Standerton in Mpumalanga Wayne van der Walt, editor of the Standerton Advertiser, was taking photos of a thunderstorm outside Standerton, in Mpumalanga, on Saturday when he observed a funnel cloud forming in the sky at about 4.40pm on December 10. He continued photographing the funnel when he spotted what he deemed to be an isolated cloud break or dust storm. I forwarded the images to Storm Report SA who confirmed from radar and satellite images that it was indeed a tornado, said Van Der Walt. Storm Report SA confirmed that a tornado formed in Standerton on Saturday. Picture: Standerton Advertiser. READ MORE: Tornado and funnel cloud appear near Standerton Caxton News Service For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.