Nothing makes Raven Klaasen more despondent than seeing deserted tennis courts as he drives around his beloved Cape Town. When not gracing the world stage and attempting to make history, the 34-year-old enjoys exploring the Mother City and when time allows, the odd round of golf is magically woven into his schedule. Speaking this week after arriving home from his successful stint in London, Klaasen has been kept on his toes running from one interview to another. If it s not an early morning appearance on Morning Live, then he s clowning around on the Dan Nicholl Show. Klaasen is known for never giving up, much like a live-wire puppy waiting for its master to throw another ball. And considering where South African tennis is right now, it s a welcome breath of fresh air. Everyone wants a piece of him, following a season which saw him dominate the local sports headlines, and not Kevin Anderson as we ve become accustomed to over the years. Since joining forces with American Rajeev Ram last year, the pair have soared to new heights, culminating at last month s ATP World Tour Finals. The sixth seeds, making their Tour Finals debut, soon caused a major upset by beating the French No 1 seeds in their first match. And in doing so, denied the combination of Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Nicolas Mahut the year-end ATP World No 1 ranking. They soon found themselves in the final where they came agonisingly close to clinching the season-ending championship. Had they won, Raven would ve become the first South African to win an ATP Tour World Doubles Championship since Pietie Norval and American Don Johnson in 2000. But if anything, the loss to the Finnish/Australian pairing of Henri Kontinen and John Peers, has only inspired Raven to fight even harder in achieving that one elusive milestone. Their current form suggests crossing this line isn t too far and with the Australian Open only six weeks away, we might just have a Grand Slam Champion in our midst early 2017. In two appearances Down Under, Klaasen reached the decider in 2014, this time teamed up with another American, Eric Butorac. Like London a fortnight ago, their path to the final included some notable scalps. They broke local hearts in the first round beating the legendary Aussie duo of Lleyton Hewitt and Patrick Rafter and in round three, then downing the once untouchable Bryan brothers, Bob and Mike, in straight sets. Dropping only one set en-route to the final, the unseeded pair eventually lost to Lukasz Kubot of Poland and Sweden s Robert Lindstedt. The Aussie Open is the most successful Grand Slam for me for some reason. I play well there every year and I think it could be because our climate is so similar this time of the year, compared to the Americans and Europeans who are coming out of winter. So far everything is on track, bar one tiny adjustment to his schedule stemming from his latest success. My preparation is slightly shorter this season because I did so well in London so I actually ended up coming home a little later as usual, said Raven, who will be jetting off to Brisbane on December 28. There he will play one warm-up tournament before making his way to Melbourne for the start of the year s first Grand Slam on January 16. For now, though, Klaasen will be making the most of the limited time he gets to spend with his wife, Celeste Jae, and, when she allows, he ll also try and work on that handicap. The tough thing with golf is that it takes half a day so when you don t have a lot of downtime and you re still spending half the day on the golf course, it s not the wisest decision, chuckled Raven. I have friends from school, my family and people that I don t see too often so I try to make time for them. My grandparents live in Cape Town and if I really have time to enjoy myself, I like to take drives around the city. It s during these lazy Sunday afternoon jaunts when he is reminded of the sad state of affairs of a sport that is faced with the impossible task of competing within a soccer/rugby/cricket mad country. One of the saddest things for me is driving past tennis courts and clubs and seeing them empty. Klaasen, currently ranked 12th in the ATP rankings, believes generating interest is at the core of the problem. If I can somehow nurture that interest in the game, the rest will follow. You ve gotta have people willing to say let me get off the couch and go hit some balls . We have to find a way to spark that interest. SA tennis needs a lot of fixing, but without delving into too many gloomy details, Raven remains optimistic about the up-and-coming talent and when officially done gunning for Grand Slam titles and No 1 rankings, would love nothing more than to get involved with a sport that has given him so much joy over the years. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.