The unveiling of the New Urban Agenda by the United Nations has come at the right time for South Africa. The country has its own plan to develop people-friendly urban spaces that promote inclusivity. This emerged at the South African Local Government Association elective conference in Sandton, Johannesburg, where different municipal leaders and local government stakeholders converged to discuss ways to fast-track development and service delivery in local government. Local Government and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen told the gathering that a new road map had been unveiled in the form of the New Urban Agenda, launched recently at the UN Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development, or Habitat 3, as it is commonly known. The conference has laid out the New Urban Agenda, which sets global standards of achievement in sustainable urban development and is effectively a road map for the next 20 years. The New Urban Agenda will serve as a blueprint for a South African implementation plan to be jointly developed by all stakeholders, Van Rooyen said. He said the Integrated Urban Development Framework (IUDF) policy passed by Cabinet in April, would serve as South Africa s plan for the country s urban future. He said there was going to be a move away from apartheid spatial planning, where people lived far from work, schools, centres of economic activity and education something that contributed to the inability get out of poverty. The IUDF aims to create a future that is socially and economically inclusive, Van Rooyen said. It calls for urban spaces that are compact, coordinated and connected. What this simply means is that we must strive to build urban environments where one can work, live and play in the same spaces. Too many of us still suffer from the insult of having to travel great distances to get to and from work. The IUDF aims to change this, he said. Van Rooyen noted the plan would require the input and buy-in of all stakeholders with interest in local government. We will need to implement the IUDF collaboratively, so a continuous process of stakeholder engagement and sharing of information will ensure that we are all empowered to participate meaningfully in the creation of our urban future. Together, we can [achieve] the kind of urban future that we want, he said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.