First Rand Bank, owners of First National Bank (FNB), has reportedly filed an affidavit supporting Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s high court application for an order declaring that ministers cannot intervene in the relationship between the country s banks and their clients. ALSO READ: Blanket of gloom hangs over MTN s new BEE scheme On Thursday Business Day, reported that the company s CEO, Johan Burger, denied that FNB had acted unlawfully in closing the Guptas&#8217; accounts earlier this year. In October, Gordhan made an application to the North Gauteng High for a declaratory order confirming that he could not intervene in a dispute between Gupta-controlled Oakbay Investments and the banks that closed its accounts. In his affidavit to the high court, Gordhan released information from the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC), which detailed more than 72 alleged suspicious and unusual transactions amounting to R6.8 billion made over four years by the controversial Gupta family and the companies they own. Burger said he had not met an interministerial committee headed by Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, established by President Jacob Zuma, after the country s four major banks severed ties with the family because of legal opinion by junior and senior counsel indicating that such a meeting would be unlawful. The business daily reported that Burger said in the affidavit it was in the public interest to grant the order, and it would encourage public officials to act according to the law. Apparently First Rand Bank s closure of the Guptas accounts had been due to associated reputational and business risks , according to the affidavit. On Tuesday, Oakbay Investments filed an affidavit to the court in a bid to access information held by the FIC. According to the Financial Intelligent Centre Act, no person is entitled information held by the centre except in terms of an order of a court . ALSO READ: Two-hour commute between Joburg and Pretoria on its way Sanral Oakbay said it had applied to the court so it could demonstrate the legitimacy of each transaction and had released its affidavit to ensure full transparency. Last Wednesday Zuma told MPs during his last appearance in the National Assembly for the year the simultaneous closure of the Gupta accounts was suspicious . &#8211; Additional reporting by Africa News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.