Child soldiers, presidents for life , the lingering effects of colonialism, countries at war with themselves and refugees are just some of the issues outgoing African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma might want to address in the first ever State of the Continent address in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, today. Communications Minister Faith Muthambi is expected to present a humanitarian award for leadership to Dlamini-Zuma for her sterling role in realising Agenda 2063 , even as Zimbabwe s President Robert Mugabe reportedly was endorsed by the ruling Zanu-PF to run for election again in 2018. Mugabe has been in power since 1980. Agenda 2063 is the African Union s roadmap and vision of what Africa could be in the next 50 years 100 years after the first 33 independent African states gathered in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to form the Organisation of African Union. Themed The Africa We Want , the document is an idea and a goal. However, there seem to be many hurdles to overcome in a relatively short time. According to the 2016 Ibrahim Index of African Governance, over the past decade, 37 countries hosting 70% of African citizens have improved in overall governance. In stark contrast, the United Nations reported last week 17 000 children had been recruited into South Sudan s war since 2013. Political analyst Daniel Silke said the idea of African countries moving closer together was a lofty, idealistic vision of the continent and there was little cohesion at the moment in terms of social policies and civil rights. Countries are increasingly performing differently, especially in terms of economic growth. There is little to unite Africa other than the brotherly love that exists across the continent. But in turn, I think we re a long way from [a] utopian vision, Silke said. Africa has not overcome the legacy of the colonial carving up of the continent, or the deep rooted social divisions which exist in many of these countries. This is a continued impediment to stability, he said. I don t think Africa has policed itself adequately on issues such as bad governance, or corruption of leaders. And there are gaping holes [as regards] accountability [of leaders], and the longevity of office of some leaders, he said. This remains an impediment to the grand scheme of Africa 2063, Silke says. I would certainly argue that Africa can succeed in aspects of commonality. Silke says this is true in particular with regard to the easing the bureaucratic burden between countries on trade, visa and cross border control issues . amandaw@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.