The legal counsel for SABC board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe was questioned by Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai as to whether it was using technicalities to delay a parliamentary inquiry into the fitness of the board. Desai asked why Maguvhe s advocate, Thubani Masuku, had made an urgent application on the basis that the lone remaining board member was pre-judged before the inquiry could even start. It was a cart before the horse scenario to approach the court pre-emptively before he could prejudice. Co-counsel Kgomosoane Mathipa, later also argued that due process was not followed in the issuing of summons for Maguvhe to appear. It was a to and fro argument that the summons had come from the Speaker of the House, through the secretary, to Maguvhe and not from the committee itself. Committee chairperson Vincent Smith and MPs were present in court and could, on repeated occasions, been seen shaking their heads and muttering under their breaths. Mathipa said the implications of who issued the summons, despite agreeing that the inquiry was a matter of national and public interest, had direct implications on his client. There is no attempt to try and stall this process [But] we prefer it to be fair and impartial, he said. Acting on behalf of the SABC as a corporation and its acting non-executive board members, Advocate Ismail Jamie said the SABC should be afforded the opportunity to participate. Desai charged that the inquiry was about the board and that was why only the board, in this case, and not one member had been summonsed. What you are doing is creating obstacles What we are getting here is stonewalling, Desai said. The committee has to submit its report to the National Assembly for consideration in February. Parliament goes into recess in less than two weeks time and committees only convene again towards the end of January. Approximately 30 witnesses have been requested to give testimony. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.