The chairperson of the National Council of Provinces, Thandi Modise, will definitely be in the National Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) sights after more than 50 dead pigs were discovered on her farm in Potchefstroom two and a half years ago. This follows the Constitutional Court confirming that the NSPCA has the right to institute private prosecutions in animal abuse cases. To all those who abuse animals, they should be afraid, very afraid, they should be looking over their shoulders, said Dr Jane Marsden, vice-chairperson of the board of the national council of SPCAs. No matter how pressed our prosecutorial and police services are, we ll be coming for them, Marsden warned. Often we had to wait for absolutely ages, even when the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) decided it would prosecute. Hopefully, we will now move on high-profile cases. ALSO READ: Stop comparing Zuma to Tambo and Mandela Mahumapelo A punitive costs order including the costs of two counsel for the NSPCA s former applications to the High Court, Supreme Court of Appeals and the ConCourt was handed by the ConCourt to the minister of justice and constitutional development and the national director of public prosecutions. The court s decision brought to an end a five-year battle of the animal rights organisation, aided by advocates Kevin Hopkins and Sandra Freese, as well as Marsden herself. In July 2014, Modise owned a farm in Potchefstroom where more than 50 dead pigs were discovered. The remaining 85 pigs were cannibalising the rotting carcasses of other pigs. According to a source, the docket has repeatedly gone missing. However, this won t be a problem any more. We are still overseen by the NPA, but we can take prosecutions forward now. Prosecutions will still go through our usual court system with our usual magistrates. We will just use our own prosecutors, Marsden stressed. Justice Sisi Khampepe wrote the NSPCA s long history of guarding the interests of animals reflects constitutional values . For this reason, and in the context of the statutory regime that now exists, a contextual and purposive reading of the SPCA Act must be taken to include the right to prosecute. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.