As the Gauteng Department of Agriculture and Rural Development considers the Final Basic Assessment Report for the proposed rehabilitation of watercourses and eco-parks within the City of Johannesburg s Braamfonteinspruit, Kyalami and Natalspruit Water Management Units, the basic assessment process is under way for the proposed rehabilitation of selected degraded sections of the Jukskei River. ALSO READ: Process to rehabilitate Joburg&#8217;s watercourses under way The proposed Jukskei-Alexandra Water Management Unit Riverine Rehabilitation within the City of Johannesburg proposes rehabilitation interventions of selected degraded sections of the Jukskei River and its tributaries, the Modderfonteinspruit and Sandspruit. Part of the project is also to establish eco-parks for the public to enjoy. A public participation meeting on the proposed riverine rehabilitation was held at the Waverley Bowls Club in Johannesburg at the end of November, with 19 interested and affected people in attendance. Environmental assessment practitioner on the project, Janna Bedford-Owen, described how the project was being implemented by the City of Johannesburg&#8217;s environmental management department through Johannesburg City Parks and Zoo, who appointed Maragela Consulting Engineers to undertake the environmental authorisation process. She explained that the project aimed to improve the ecological status and habitat integrity of the watercourses within the Jukskei River Water Management Unit, which is drained by the Jukskei, Sandspruit and Modderfontein rivers, spanning the areas of Waterval in the Midrand area, Buccleuch in the Sandton area, Lombardy in the north east of Johannesburg, Alexandra, Corlett Gardens, Innesfree Park, Atholl and Morningside in the Sandton area. Bedford-Owen described how 12 sites were selected within Jukskei-Alexandra Water Management Unit. All of the selected sites are in public open spaces and range from being extensively to moderately modified. Bedford-Owen went through each site in turn, describing the impacts and proposed interventions. Among the impacts found at the various sites were: litter along the river banks, dumped rubble, encroachment by alien invasive vegetation, human activities which have disturbed the natural habitats, sedimentation and eroded riverbanks. Some of the proposed interventions include restricting access by humans to the site by installing fences, reprofiling and vegetating the stream banks to allow for increased infiltration of the runoff, river cleanup projects, removing alien invasive vegetation, removing sediment and silt and instal erosion control fences. Some of the comments made by attendees during the question and comment section of the meeting were that it was necessary to find ways to slow down the river&#8217;s flow; that consideration should be given for animals to move through or furrow under fences that will be erected to get out of the flood line; and that there is a need for a floodplain especially in consideration of the damage caused in the recent floods. Attendees further pointed out that collapsed storm water outlets and leaking sewer lines needed attention, and Bedford-Owen said such ideas could be incorporated into the project. Bedford-Owen said they hoped to start the project in the dry season. She further indicated that the basic assessment process must be completed in accordance with the National Environmental Management Act Environmental Impact Assessment regulations in a bid to obtain environmental authorisation. Caxton News Service