The African National Congress (ANC) Greater Johannesburg Region said on Thursday that it was disturbed by the recent comments made by city s Mayor Herman Mashaba about illegal immigrants , and vowed to take him to the Human Rights Commission. In a statement, the ANC Joburg said Mashaba s recent utterances about illegal immigrants were impolitic and showed yet again his lack of understanding of what it meant to be a leader of society. We will tutor Herman Mashaba on why it was careless of him to make such a statement given the history of the region with xenophobic attacks, the ANC Joburg said. Over the past 22 years, there have been seven incidents of xenophobic attacks that led to many foreign nationals losing their lives, their homes were destroyed and their shops were looted by those who blame foreigners for the levels of unemployment and crime. During his 100 Days in Office speech last week, Mashaba said illegal immigrants without documentation in Johannesburg were linked to criminal activity in the city and called for their deportation. ALSO READ: Scandal-ridden Zuma scores F- on DA report card Mashaba s statement provoked a heated reaction from foreign national community organisations in Johannesburg, to the extent that the African Diaspora Forum has organised a march to his office on Friday. The ANC Joburg said a responsible leader ought to know not to make irresponsible statements that could possibly precipitate another event of xenophobic violence. A responsible leader would know that this is a very sensitive subject that needs to be addressed with the sensitivity it deserves with the correct authorities, ANC Joburg said. The irresponsible utterances of a tenderfoot Mayor do not just appall the ANC, we are [also] trying to prevent a diplomatic and xenophobic violent fallout. This is something the newcomer Mayor won t understand. The ANC Joburg also said it would be taking the matter to the Human Rights Commission for investigation and action. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.