When Mandla uttered some words, his grandfather started to stir, surprising Machel. She watched as Mandela nodded and tried to say something, his lips moving silently, before attempting to reach out for his grandson s hand. Mandla held onto Mandela s hand, feeling really satisfied because I felt that I had done what I had come to do . He shares the memory of this special occasion with his Aunt Gra a, who along with the doctors present in the room at the time was visibly moved by the exchange between the two Mandela men. Soon afterwards, her husband s organs began to fail. Mandla had already left the house at this point, but he received a call advising him to return as his grandfather had died. Gra a Machel spoke to those present at the house after Mandela s death, attributing her husband s final, peaceful goodbye to the words of his grandson, who, she said, had released Madiba after weeks of his being visited by so many people, including Winnie and other members of his family, and enduring so much. She added that Mandla might possess a gift which allowed him to do this. Also present at the house during Mandela s death was Reverend Vukile Mehana, who was standing in for Bishop Ziphozihle Siwa to perform the last rites. Mehana had also visited Mandela when he was in hospital in Pretoria, during which time he and other Methodist clerics kept close to him and the family and very quietly would go and minister to him. For us as people of the church that he belonged to, it was not for the cameras: for us it was a ministry to the family and to him , says Mehana. Throughout the time Mandela was in a coma, those ministers were present, ready to attend to him. All of them, especially Bishop Siwa and the general secretary of the SACC, Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana of the Ethiopian Episcopal Church, were always prepared for any eventuality , and journeyed with the family as the Methodist Church leadership , Mehana says. For Mandela s last rites, Mehana held a service that was attended by the entire Mandela family. He had not prepared a sermon, he says. Instead, the reverend called on God to speak to him through the written word to prepare the departure of the soul and very deeply to intercede with God to receive Mandela s soul . At the same time, Mehana was also there to prepare [the family] pastorally now that the hour has come . Mehana describes Mandela s passing as so peaceful , and declares, I know that he is resting in God s arms. I know that. Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana was also at the Mandela residence on the night of the former president s death. He was in a private room, saying a prayer from Mandela s favourite Bible verse, Numbers 6: 24 26: The Lord bless you and keep you; the Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you; the Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace. Bishop Mpumlwana had been reciting the verse at 8.50pm on the evening of December 5, 2013, and only found out later that Mandela had died while he was saying this prayer. Not at Mandela s bedside was his friend and personal chaplain, Bishop Don Dabula, who had been summoned by the Mandela family but was unable to get a flight to Johannesburg from the Transkei that evening. President Jacob Zuma made the announcement later that night that Mandela had died, telling the world that SA had lost its greatest son . This is an extract from Dennis Cruywagen s book, The Spiritual Mandela. Cruywagen is an acclaimed journalist and political commen tator, as well as a former parliamentary spokesperson for the ANC. He was deputy editor of the Pretoria News and a recipient of a Nieman Fellowship and a Mason Fellowship at Harvard University. It is the first book to explore the spiritual aspect of Nelson Mandela s life. Mandela revealed nothing about his personal religious beliefs in his writings or in his public pronouncements. But those who were close to him know that he held Christian views, and, at his request, the final part of his funeral followed the Methodist service. This book traces the spiritual aspect of Mandela s life, from his youth in a traditional Thembu village to his education at Wesleyan and Methodist mission schools, to his time as an activist, his period on Robben Island and the years thereafter. It explores the way that he balanced Christianity with traditional African beliefs and his political views, and how he reconciled his own beliefs with the fact that religion had often been used as a tool to oppress his people. Based on interviews with some of Mandela s close colleagues, such as Ahmed Kathrada, as well as priests and other religious figures with whom he interacted, this book unearths an unknown dimension of recent history s most famous man. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.