2016 has been quite a big year for some of our most-loved celebrities. The year saw South African personalities continue to fly the country&#8217;s flag high internationally with their achievements. From Daily Show host Trevor Noah snagging a one-on-one interview with United States president Barack Obama, to Pearl Thusi starring in the acclaimed US show Quantico, below is a list of the stars who shone brightly this year. 1) Trevor Noah Of course the biggest mention on the list is comedian Trevor Noah, who has been doing quite well in the US since late last year. Noah took over as host of the The Daily Show with Trevor Noah late last year, taking over from Jon Stewart. Since 2016, the comedian has soared to even bigger heights with some truly memorable achievements. The funnyman first saw his ratings soar at the beginning of the year, with Viacom stating that his show was the most watched late-night talk show among adults 18-24 . He then went on to interview the US President Barack Obama at the White House, an interview that earned him much praise from South African audiences. To top it all off, Noah then released a book titled Born A Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood, making the country even prouder. Monday on The Daily Show: Trevor interviews President Barack Obama. pic.twitter.com/JFRi1umsVE &mdash; The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) December 10, 2016 READ MORE: Trevor Noah gets a one-on-one with President Obama 2)Pearl Thusi Another star who made it big this year was presenter/actress Pearl Thusi. The former Metro FM DJ snagged a role in the hit US series Quantico earlier this year. Thusi plays the role of Dayana Mampasi, described as a type-A lawyer struggling to fit in. Her debut scored much praise from South Africans, with local celebrities and citizens taking to social media to congratulate Thusi on her achievement. https://www.instagram.com/p/BKyfyslB0b0/ READ MORE: Watch: A glimpse of Pearl Thusi on US series Quantico 3) Black Coffee Another milestone achieved by a South African star was Black Coffee, who became the first South African to win a BET award in the Best International Act &#8211; Africa category. Black Coffee bested AKA, Cassper Nyovest as well as Diamond Platinumz to win the award. Another major highlight for the house DJ was being included in the lineup at the renowned American festival, the Coachella festival. Black Coffe and wife Mbali Mlotshwa. Picture: Instagram READ MORE:Bonang, Boity and Black Coffee make headlines 4) Bonang Matheba Also worth mentioning on the list is South Africa&#8217;s It girl, Bonang Matheba, who was named the African ambassador for Ipanema footwear. According to IOL,Matheba was selected for her elegant touch and love of fashion and joined the likes of supermodel Gisele B ndchen, another face connected to the brand. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.