Looking back on parliament s 2016 sitting, presiding officers said on Wednesday it was bittersweet but lessons had been learnt. This included the Constitutional Court saga, ongoing absenteeism and repeated calls for Speaker Baleka Mbete to pack her bags and go for her apparent bias in favour of President Jacob Zuma. Earlier this year the Constitutional Court ruled against parliament for failing to hold the executive accountable for the pay-out for non-security upgrades to President Jacob Zuma s private homestead. It should have scrutinised and absorbed the Public Protector s recommendations that punishment had to be meted out because its oversight role was flawed. ALSO READ: Mbulaheni Maguvhe: MPs bullied, belittled and disrespected me In another instance later this year, parliament also came under fire following a ruling by the highest court that it had failed to meet its obligations when passing legislation on land rights. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli said: the constitutional court decisions; there s no question we ve learnt a bittersweet lesson. We will make mistakes and our mistakes are human, he said. Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces Thandi Modise said however criticism of presiding officers by opposition MPs that the House protected Zuma were unfounded. I don t agree with the notion that we have protected the president, she said adding that all MPs were protected but in light of allegations hindsight is a teacher . Mbete seemed nonplussed by continued calls from the EFF and the DA for her resign. The parties have argued that she should step down as she was biased towards the ANC and the president. This was because she was also a member of the ANC executive in Luthuli House. She said presiding officers wouldn t survive if they were judged by the political party they were affiliated to. I don t feel bad; I don t feel the DA owes me some love or something, I understand because they are the opposition, she said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.