The University of the Free State (UFS) on Wednesday announced a general fee increase of 8% in tuition and housing fees for 2017. The Council of the University of the Free State (UFS) approved the institution s budget for 2017 during its quarterly meeting on Friday 2 December 2016, which was held on the Bloemfontein Campus. A general increase of 8% in tuition fees and eight percent in housing and residence fees were also approved, UFS said in a statement. Acting Vice-Chancellor and Rector of the UFS Prof Nicky Morgan said that the average fees per programme at the UFS are in almost all instances the lowest when measured against the fees of comparable universities. He said this would remain in 2017, even after the 8% tuition fee increase. The university management is aware of the economic realities in South Africa, as well as the financial pressure households are experiencing. The long-term financial sustainability of the UFS, as well as the financial constraints which impact teaching and learning, research, and community service, continue to remain of utmost importance to the Council, Morgan said in a statement. The university said that the approved increase was in line with the recommendations by Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande s on September 19. ALSO READ: Wits students unhappy over 8% fee hike The increases were approved with the understanding that it would be paid by the department by means of the fee adjustment grant for qualifying students with a combined family income of not more than R600,000, UFS said. The university management stated its pro-poor approach to student funding on several occasions; also that academically deserving students from poor and working class families should receive substantial financial support, Morgan said. For this reason also because it does not place a burden on poor and working-class families an increase in tuition fees aligned with the DHET proposal was submitted to Council for approval. The presidents of the Bloemfontein and Qwaqwa Campus Student Representative Councils were present and participated in the discussion on fees also when Council approved the increase. On Monday, the University of Witwaterstrand (Wits) announced that fees will increase by 8% in 2017 in line with the recommendations made by the state in September. At the time, Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel said the decision on the 2017 fee increase was recommended by management and the Financial Committee (FinCo) of the University and approved by Council after consultation with the elected Students Representative Council (SRC). The university has planned an increased despite the #FeesMustFall protests that caused unrest and turned violent. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.