The African National Congress (ANC) in the eThekwini Region on Tuesday welcomed the retraction and apology from its Youth League following unsavoury comments directed at the party s Treasurer General, Zweli Mkhize. This comes after the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in eThekwini said over the weekend that Mkhize had no constituencies in KwaZulu-Natal, and would not succeed if he campaigned to be the deputy presidency on Cyril Ramaphosa s slate as the young lions supported Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. ANC s eThekwini regional secretary, Bheki Ntuli said Mkhize was a national leader of the party, and thus deserved all the respect from all members of the movement. As the ANC in eThekwini Region we have engaged the Youth League of the Region about their comments which we consider to be reckless and irresponsible, Ntuli said in a statement. The youth league has tendered its unconditional apology which we also accept unconditionally. While we believe in the right of our youth structures to exercise freedom of speech and expression but this must be done in a dignified and responsible manner. Ntuli said the withdrawal of the remarks by the Youth League is a clear demonstration of remorse and acceptance of the mistake they committed. It is worth noting that the Youth League are young people who are still at the learning curve of their political careers, they will from time to time make mistakes but the onus is on us as comrades in senior structures to make them learn from their mistakes, Ntuli said. Meanwhile, Ntuli said the ANC in the region did not take kindly to eThekwini Municipality Manager Sibusiso Sithole s recent remarks following his suspension. Sithole has voiced his concerns to the media about his suspension, saying that proper processes were followed in asking him to leave two weeks before his contracts expired. Mr Sithole is a seasoned administrator, who has made a tremendous contribution in the local government space. We are however perturbed by his recent utterances in the media, Ntuli said. Instead we were anticipating more cooperation between the Office of the City Manager and that of the Mayor which sadly has not happened. This week the Municipal Council will seat to consider this issue and resolve on it. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.