The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) said on Tuesday that embattled former executive at the South African Broadcasting Services (SABC), Hlaudi Motsoeneng, should face criminals charges over fraud and corruption he allegedly presided over at the public broadcaster. This comes after a whistle-blower s evidence on Tuesday revealed alleged procurement fraud at the SABC involving Motsoeneng in relation to a studio refurbishing tender which was abruptly cancelled and awarded to a company called Vision View. The documents also alleged the cancellation formed part of a collusive deal to award R42 million to refurbish a multipurpose studio. Outa which laid criminal charges against Motsoeneng, members of the SABC board and executive managers last week said it had studied all the new information, including the Enterprise Risk Management and Governance Report which noted the many irregularities of the contract and high likelihood of fraud and corruption. Lerissa Govender, internal legal counsel at Outa, said the information Outa received prior to laying charges last week was already substantive and sufficient for the case to be opened. However, today s input from the whistle-blower who shared his input with many organisations provides additional information which we will use to supplement last week s charges, Govender said in a statement. We will ensure that Mr Hlaudi Motsoeneng and others responsible will be held accountable for the contract in favour of Vision View Productions, as this was a gross contravention of due process and done without the requisite authorisation. MPs say heads must roll over SABC fraud allegations SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago was not immediately available for comment as his phone rang unanswered. Outa s charges included fraud, racketeering, corruption and abuse of power for a number of matters, as well as irrational conduct related to the MultiChoice deal. It is clear to Outa that many board members were aware that the contract was awarded in violation of the SABC s procurement policies and the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), and that some board members actively conspired to ensure that the contract was awarded to Vision View, Govender said. Indeed, Head of Sport, Bessie Tugwana wrote to Vision View informing them that they had been awarded the contract and that an agreement had been drafted prior to the board even having resolved to award this contract. Meanwhile, Outa called on the Communications portfolio committee in Parliament which probes governance issues at the SABC, to urgently convene to appoint an interim board for the public broadcaster. The sole remaining SABC board member and its chairman, Mbulaheni Maguvhe, resigned on Monday after facing a grilling at the SABC inquiry in Parliament last week. We therefore urge the committee to reinstate these loyal, competent former staff members who share a wealth of institutional knowledge and experience when it comes to the SABC, Govender said. Some of them, like former risk and governance group executive Itani Tseisi and former acting CFO and CEO Tiaan Olivier should be included on an interim board. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.