I m intrigued by the relationship most womxn have with receiving oral sex. The majority of us grew up in an age where Cosmo taught us the &#8220;20 different sexual positions&#8221; to please our man and &#8220;10 steamy methods to keep blowjobs interesting&#8221;. And while FHM prided itself on objectifying womxn on every cover it had, I rarely saw articles for men on keeping their partner happy sexually. Sex has always focused on men if you ve been reading my articles for long enough, you&#8217;ll know I remind myself of that in almost every piece. Which is why I come to you now to speak about focusing on the person with the vagina! There are few things I enjoy more than oral sex both giving and receiving it gives me such pleasure. When it s done right, of course. Giving someone that same pleasure simply by having them in my mouth as they squirm, gasp and moan is a feeling that will never tire me. Being who I am, of course a curious, nosy being I tend to try engaging in conversations about oral sex with anyone who ll allow me to in an effort to understand why so many people are still recoiling at the thought of it because of gruelling past encounters. While we ve been constantly groomed to want our vaginas to smell like mangoes and have the texture of the peel, it goes beyond biology. Let s focus on the fact that many of us have genuinely been scarred by bad oral sex. What. The. Hell. Are. Some. Of. You. Doing. Down. There? A good start? Ask your partner what they want! There are some people who honestly just prefer not to engage in oral sex, but the only way to find out if it s a genuine preference or them thinking about previous encounters is to talk to them. Just as you d communicate about wanting to try kinkier forms of sex, roleplay, or anything else in your sex lives, conversation is a great start. Once you ve got an enthusiastic yes on pleasuring your partner via oral sex, how about warming them up first? Unless you re having a quickie, there is no reason you shouldn t tease your partner to make sure the tension they feel bubbles into something explosive once you get going. Take your time. Explore your partner s body with your hands, use your nails and tease her inner thighs. Plant kisses on her hip bone, hold and squeeze her thighs, make her feel like you ve been craving this all day. Tell her exactly that, let her know how desirable she is and how badly you want to taste her. Then do; taste your partner slowly, using the tip of your tongue. Let her feel your warm breath on her and go sloooowly. Build up the excitement by focusing on her vulva; light kisses on her clitoral hood will be sure to send shivers and raise hairs. Give her time to feel like you re in this to give her exactly what she needs. Suck gently on her clit and watch for an indication of the exact pressure you should place there. Remember, not everyone with a vagina prefers the same thing. Your ex who liked rough oral sex is not the same as your present partner, who may be more sensitive and need gentle attention. When you listen to, watch and be one with your partner while saddled between her thighs, you ll only encourage her to be more open with you when you do things wrong or right. Listen to the sounds she makes, the way she&#8217;s breathing; pay attention to the movements she makes and how she squirms or arches her back. Play with your tongue, use various pressures and parts of your tongue. No one likes a person who gives head like a cat cleaning itself, a lizard that just sticks its tongue in and out or a lazy tongue! Put it to work tracing the alphabet on a clit has served few well when they actually paid attention to what their partner wanted. As soon as you get into the rhythm they enjoy, do not stop. I repeat. Do. Not. Stop. Be firmer, be faster, and be steady. Try not to lose momentum because it may distract your partner from the end goal. Use your fingers only if they actually like being fingered only some people enjoy a finger or two in conjunction with the tongue. Listening is key in any sexual interaction and it doesn t change here. If you re willing to ask and receive some feedback from the person you re with, things become more fun and pleasurable for both parties. Relaxing into each other s bodies becomes much more intimate when you re aware your partner is willing to ask when they need help with pleasuring you. Communication is incredibly sexy. And when you re done, for the love of all that is good, please don t just penetrate your partner unless that s exactly what they want. Not all oral sex is meant to be merely foreplay and readying your partner for your penis. Kiss them all over, let them enjoy the rolls of pleasure they ve just experienced. Focus your energy from them and allow them to take the lead there are many more orgasms for both of you to come when you ve done all you can to pleasure your partner. To chat to The Citizen s sex columnist or ask Tshegofatso a question, you can drop her a (friendly) email on hello@mbongomuffin.com To chat to The Citizen s sex columnist or ask Tshegofatso a question, you can drop her a (friendly) email on hello@mbongomuffin.com