North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo and his provincial executives have scored poorly in a scorecard produced by the opposition Democratic Alliance on their performances yesterday. The year s assessment results by DA North West leader Joe McGluwa indicated that Mahumapelo s cabinet performance went from bad to worse. This cabinet, just like Jacob Zuma, is more concerned with putting their personal interests first, and the people of South Africa stone-last. McGluwa s report shows many department with irregular expenditure patterns. &nbsp; Mahumapelo received symbol F, which McGluwa attributed to his no concern for the people of the province. He is an absent, uncaring head of provincial government. McGluwa said the premier abused so-called community projects to canvass for the ANC and was leaving a poor legacy about developing the youth. He said the premier s office received a qualified audit report and the irregular expenditure of R279 million in the last few years while he blew millions on a private jet. Legislature speaker Susan Dantjie gets symbol C, down from a B last year. She has clearly regressed in her duties that should ensure good governance and accountability, McGluwa said. Finance MEC Wendy Nelson has also regressed from a B last year to a C this year Local government MEC Fenny Gaolaolwe we are unable to score the MEC due to the mess in her department. This former Social Development MEC has done very little to resolve the mess in this department. As acting social development MEC, Gaolaolwe scores an F symbol. The Department had irregular expenditure of R15 590 000 in the current year and R243 269 000 as the prior year&#8217;s irregular expenditure, which remains unresolved. Health MEC Dr Magome Masike scores an F. More than R105 million was spent on payouts for malpractice lawsuits and legal costs. Education MEC Jonas Sello Lehari scores a lenient F-. This department has a budget of more than R13 billion and yet no progress is made to update dilapidated infrastructure, providing a safe educational environment or to assist poor learners properly. Rural, environment and agricultural development MEC Maketsi Thlape again scores an F-. A close ally of Premier Mahumapelo, she launches projects where the main beneficiaries are ex-mayors, ex-municipal managers and other high profile ANC cadres. Public works and roads MEC Madoda Sambatha is currently responsible for 13% of the total irregular expenditure in the North West. His department fails to carry out maintenance on building and transport infrastructure. The DA said it was impossible to give Sambatha a score, as &#8220;there was not a grade low enough to suit his ineffective department . Safety and security MEC Mpho Motlhabane scores an F. The department is said to be on the brink of collapse, with an irregular expenditure of R739 million in the 2014/2015 financial year . Arts, culture and traditional affairs MEC Ontlametse Mochware scores a F , mostly due to her disclaimer report by the auditor-general. Tourism MEC Desbo Mohono scores symbol D for her performance. The biggest challenge for Mohono is to keep her department accountable for the failure to spend the entire budget again this year. The DA will continue to keep the premier and his team accountable. They are in service of the people of the North West province. Our suffering communities can no longer suffer under the hands of underachievers, and therefore the DA will use all mechanisms available to us to hold them to account, McGluwa said. &#8211; ericn@citizen.co.za