With only a week into the current summer season, already one initiation-related death has been recorded. This comes in the wake of concerns about the very hot weather conditions initiates have to endure in some parts of the country. This week, most parts of the country were gripped by a heatwave, which saw maximum temperatures in some areas hitting the 40 degrees Celsius mark. According to chairperson of the national initiation task team Inkosi Sipho Mahlangu, the latest death happened at an illegal initiation school based in the Eastern Cape. Exactly this time last year, seven initiation-related deaths were reported, and the national death toll for the entire initiation season stood at 37. Speaking to Saturday Citizen on Friday, Mahlangu said they were still investigating the exact cause of the initiate&#8217;s death. &#8220;One of the biggest issues we have had, particularly in the Eastern Cape, has been that of some parents who don&#8217;t want to cooperate with government and some have even gone as far as saying officials who are working with us to ensure that all initiates are safe, are there to destroy their culture. &#8220;Despite the resistance from some of the parents, we will not stop our work of ensuring that all the initiation rules are adhered to and to avoid deaths and injuries, it is important for everyone to undergo a screening test, where we check people&#8217;s health conditions, as well as the initiation sites themselves,&#8221; Mahlangu said. During the summer initiation season, the Eastern Cape normally has an intake of between 60 000 and 70 000 initiates. Other provinces that also conducted initiations during summer include Gauteng, Free State and Northern Cape. In Gauteng, where an agreement was reached to abandon initiation schools for this summer season due to health reasons, Mahlangu confirmed that some still went ahead and started operating from last week in the Vaal. &#8220;We found several initiation schools operating illegally this week and we managed to rescue the children. &#8220;A total of six schools were closed in Sebokeng and nine in other parts of the Vaal,&#8221; Mahlangu said. Sometime this week, MMC for health in the Emfuleni local municipality Zaza Raikane warned that those who ignore government&#8217;s plea not to open initiation schools run the risk of being denied permission to do so in the future. She said the decision was prompted by reports which suggested that gangs were formed at initiation schools, a claim denied by several community leaders, who said gangsterism started in high schools. Meanwhile, one of the gang members who is facing murder charges appeared again in court on Thursday, but the matter was postponed to next week Wednesday for further bail application. The suspect was arrested following a fight between two rival gang groups a few weeks ago, which also left two gang members dead. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.