The DA on Wednesday warned residents of the City of Tshwane not to be used as a political pawns by the ANC just because the ANC cannot accept its electoral defeat. MMC for housing and human settlements Mandla Nkomo on Wednesday condemned the repeated spate of land invasions and the violent nature in which they manifest themselves. While we fully appreciate the frustrations of residents in our city, the unlawful seizure of land does not, in fact, help, but serves to exacerbate hardship down the line. As such we call on residents not to allow themselves to be used as political pawns. We encourage them to work together with the new administration that is working tirelessly to ensure that all eligible people get access to the housing they require and not just the connected few as was seen throughout the ANC tenure in Tshwane, he said. He added they are making progress despite the petulance of the former administration. This is evidenced by the Fort West project that was neglected by the former administration and has been re-launched and put to work by the executive mayor Solly Msimanga s administration. Meeting the demand for housing remains one of the city s biggest challenges. Msimanga and Nkomo have affirmed their commitment to speed up the eradication of informal settlements and to promote security of tenure through the provision of proper housing opportunities. Nkomo said they need all hands on deck to call out ruthless instigation misleading people into occupying land unlawfully. Land invasions are not only unlawful but create future hardship in those areas were land is seized without the necessary bulk infrastructure, Nkomo said. He said various obstacles to achieve sustainable housing are outlined within the Tshwane 2055 growth and development strategy. Meanwhile, the city is pursuing the relocation of Mamelodi residents who have unlawfully occupied a piece of land until such a time as the necessary infrastructure (food lines, electricity, water and sanitation) has been installed. He said suspected land invasions should be reported at the Tshwane metro police control on 082-611-9974. The line is manned day and night. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.