This year s 16 days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children provides our young and rights-based constitutional democratic nation with yet another opportunity to punch holes into the scourge of abuse that has become the order of the day for vulnerable members of our society. An outpouring of condemnation has grown around the issue of abuse of women and children but this seems to have done little as it continues, unabated. Almost daily, the public is treated to story after story of spine-chilling acts committed against the defenceless. It is mind-boggling that there seems to be an illogicality that accompanies these cowardly acts of violence. This is the expectation on the part of the perpetrators of these disgusting acts that everyone should adopt a grovelling meekness towards them. They think people should genuflect or pat them on the back for demeaning the humanity of those who are most vulnerable. The campaign this year gives us an opportunity to look anew at the victimisation of our women and children and calls on us to recommit to work harder than before to uproot these cowardly acts. In this regard, the department of water and sanitation (DWS) is playing a pioneering role in championing the cause of women by reversing their almost acceptable exclusion in the water and sanitation sector. Through the Women Entrepreneurship Incubator Project (WEIP), the department seeks to push back the stereotypes that are associated with the water and sanitation sector as the preserve of men. These efforts by the department may give rise to some asking a question of the nexus between issues of water and sanitation and women abuse. The answer is that the abuse of women and children is not only confined to physical abuse. This abuse should not been seen only through the lenses of physical victimisation of women and children as it manifests itself in different ways, some of which may not necessarily be obvious. Accordingly, women have always borne the brunt of an assortment of abuses. Before the advent of democracy in our country, women endured the most ruthless of discriminations that included but not limited to being prevented from playing a meaningful role in developing themselves and their families. They were the first in line as victims of unemployment, growing poverty and inequality. Drawing on these experiences, the WEIP is a catalyst in changing the face of the water sector. The project s aim, which goes to the heart of collapsing the walls of gender discrimination and sexism, is to facilitate a safe and supportive environment where women entrepreneurs are able to start up and sustain their businesses and access available opportunities in the sector. This project makes one of the key investments in women and will surely contribute to addressing the challenges of abuse, poverty, inequality and unemployment which are, first and foremost, felt by women. It is hoped that through this project the department will build on the work done by both government and civil society organisations to break the back of abuse and bring about the benefits of growth and prosperity for our women. Hosia Sithole. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.