For the first time in a long time, Eskom may be ahead of the curve with a purported extra 800Mw being added to the grid, courtesy of Kusile power station. The connection of Unit 1 of Kusile comes at a time when Eskom has incrementally been building excess capacity to ensure security of power supply, a statement from the utility said yesterday. In addition to Unit 6 of the Medupi power station, which been operating for over a year now, Eskom s new build programme has also added 1 332Mw from all four units of the Ingula Pumped Storage Scheme, as well as the synchronisation of Medupi Unit 5. However, energy expert Chris Yelland cautioned against any over-excitement. What happened today was what is known as the first synchronisation of Unit 1 [of Kusile], Yelland said yesterday. It normally takes a further six months to go from first synchronisation to what is known as a commercial operation date, when the unit is handed over to Eskom s generation division for stable commercial power delivery. Yelland said there would be no immediate effect on the economy as there s been a surplus of between 2000Mw and 4000Mw for about six months. The phrases rolling blackouts and load shedding became South Africa s newest entries to its lexicon after power-tripping executives forgot to pay attention to the country s electricity needs. The attempts by Eskom to spread the burden evenly also had the effect of South Africans being subjected to Eskom pleading for everyone to stop using electricity, creating a self-induced lethargy, which persists in Eskom s junk status credit rating. Will it get better? I don t know, Yelland said. We only have one Eskom; we don t have a choice where we buy our electricity from. &#8220;If Eskom fails, we all fail, if it succeeds, we all succeed. He noted Kusile was still in the hands of the construction company that would be doing testing for the next six months, and the unit would be on and off many, many times for testing. The other thing is that it is only the first of six units, which should have been handed over for commercial operation by the end of 2014. &#8220;As you can see from the press release, all six units are now supposed to be handed over by 2022, so it s running eight years late and, it is now R100 billion over budget, Yelland said. Eskom said yesterday that excess capacity had allowed it to increase its electrification target to more than 200 000 households by the end of March, against the target of 169 722 that had been set for it by the department of energy. Eskom s electricity sales to Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe rose 31.6% in the six months to September 30. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.