Dar es Salaam. The Workers Compensation Fund (WCF) has raised Sh66 billion since coming into operation in July, this year.WCF director general Masha Mshomba said during the fund s official launch yesterday that 189 workplace accidents had been recorded so far and claims for compensation lodged. We have also engaged 960 doctors and are in partnership with seven institutions and organisations, namely Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute, Muhimbili National Hospital, Ocean Road Cancer Institute, Strategis Insurance, Jubilee Insurance, National Health Insurance Fund and AAR, he said.The fund is responsible for compensating workers who suffer occupational injuries or contract occupational illnesses. It also compensates dependants of workers who die while on duty. The fund offers members seven benefits. They are medical aid, compensation for temporary disablement, compensation for permanent disablement, constant attendant care grant, rehabilitational services, funeral grants and compensation to dependants of deceased workers.Medical aid includes ambulance services, medical consultation, surgical consultation, skilled nursing services, payment of medication, remedial treatment if recommended and supply and repair of prosthetic limbs. Under the Workers Compensation Act of 2008 (Revised in 2015), all employers are required to contribute to the WCF, with private and public sector employers contributing one per cent and 0.5 per cent of their annual wage bills, respectively.The creation of the fund has been criticised by the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE), which sees it as an added burden on employers, who already have to contribute to social security funds at the rate of ten per cent of workers monthly gross salaries and pay the Skills Development Levy.Speaking at yesterday s launch, ATE executive director Aggrey Mlimuka called for a review of the rate of one per cent of annual wage bills private sector employers are required to pay to WCF. We are still not satisfied with the structure of the scheme, especially the rates. We think that this issue needs to be discussed further, Dr Mlimuka said. Launching the WCF on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama, said the launch was a major boost to the country s social security system, which now comprises seven funds.Other entities are the NSSF, PPF, LAPF, GEPF, PSPF and the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF). According to a recent study, the seven funds have assets worth over Sh8 trillion, and have invested over Sh7 trillion. The government expects them to be at the forefront of building an industrial economy, Ms Mhagama said.She added that renewed efforts should be made to provide the informal sector with social security cover.The minister also said the government had stepped up the pace of paying the Sh722 billion debt it owed various social security funds.Dignitaries who attended yesterday s ceremony included permanent secretaries, senior government officials, trade union leaders and representatives of the International Labour Organisation.