Four primary school classrooms were burnt at Lebaleng in Makwassie near Wolmaransstad, the North West education department said on Thursday. Spokesperson Freddy Sepeng said classrooms at Phogole Primary School were torched on Wednesday, due to alleged criminal acts causing damages estimated at R2 million. A block of four classrooms were burnt down, school furniture [chairs and tables ] and the administration block was severely damaged due to suspicion of burglary. It is reported that a member of the community saw the smoke coming from the school at 1.30pm in the afternoon on Wednesday, and immediately alerted the neighbours who called the police and the fire fighters. He said the suspected criminals gained entry by breaking the burglar of the admin block and went on to disconnect the alarm system. It is alleged that they targeted tablets and computers but unfortunately the school kept them elsewhere in a safe place which is out of school. Upon failing to get the electronic gadgets, criminals resorted in burning the school. They allegedly used a grinder to destroy the strong room door and vandalised the reception area. A few weeks ago, the criminals stole an unconfirmed number of tablets and computers at Atlarelang Primary School which is in the same township using the same modus operandi, he said. The North West Education and Sport Development MEC Sello Lehari condemned the incident. On behalf of the department I strongly condemn the barbaric act of criminality which continue to disadvantage the schools of our learners, he said. I am calling upon for the arm of the law to arrest those individuals who feed themselves in stealing properties intended to develop children in schools. It is heartbreaking to see criminals destroying the future of our children at an expense of government. The department plans to provide temporary classrooms to the school during the reopening of schools whilst a permanent solution is been sorted. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.