The Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) yesterday said they are fully behind outgoing African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to be the country&#8217;s next ANC president, as they believe the country should have a female leader. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa steps up in race to succeed Zuma MKMVA chairperson and deputy defence minister Kebby Maphatsoe told The Citizen yesterday his association was pushing for a female president. We stand by that, Maphatsoe said. Dlamini-Zuma is supported by the MKMVA, ANC Youth League and ANC Women s League. The Premier League , an ANC lobby group led by the premiers of North West, Free State and Mpumalanga, is also in favour of Dlamini-Zuma taking over the reins. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is expected to be challenged by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed President Jacob Zuma as ANC leader at the party&#8217;s elective conference next year. The ANC s succession battle has escalated, as the Young Communist League (YCL) announced that it wants Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma. This comes in the wake of trade union federation Cosatu and some of its affiliates officially backing Ramaphosa, despite the succession debate ostensibly being banned from discussion. ALSO READ: EFF attempts to disrupt Zuma at Constitution celebrations The YCL, the SA Communist Party s youth wing, said its support for Ramaphosa was based on the ANC tradition of its deputy succeeding the president. YCL secretary Mluleki Dlelanga said the league needed a leader that would deal decisively with factionalism, gate-keeping, corruption and corporate capture. The YCL also called on its mother body to consider contesting the 2019 general elections alone. ngwakom@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.