Bonginkosi Khanyile, the Durban University of Technology student accused of using a slingshot during the recent #FeesMustFall protests, was denied bail for a second time in the Durban Magistrate s Court this week. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Natasha Ramkisson-Kara confirmed Khanyile had been denied bail and that the case against him had been postponed to December 6. Exactly what happened in the courtroom or the reasons for bail being denied for a second time remains unknown because Magistrate Jackie Jonck on Monday ordered that the bail proceedings be held in camera. Attempts on Monday by media to address Jonck in a bid for the media to report on the new bail application were rejected. Usually, when proceedings are ordered to be held in camera, it is due to the involvement of a minor or a sexual offence. Khanyile was arrested in running battles with police on September 27, but charged with incitement to commit public violence, participating in an illegal gathering, possession of explosives and dangerous weapons, obstructing traffic and causing a nuisance on public roads. It is understood the new bail application was made on the basis that there was new evidence to be submitted to court. The EFF will now be approaching the high court on an urgent basis to have the student leader released from the 62 days of imprisonment he has faced to this day, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. We call on sanity to reign on those who are leading the state s case and not condemn the student to more days of imprisonment, as the possibility is imminent that Bonginkosi will spend the festive season behind bars. This form of vilification is not corrective, neither does it yield the required fruits in holding him back from leading more protests as the university will be closed. In handing down her decision to deny Khanyile bail on October 17, Jonck cited video evidence that showed the accused assaulting police and encouraging students to moer the police . African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.