President Jacob Zuma on Saturday pledged his commitment to the Constitution during celebrations at Sedibeng s Constitution Square in Vereeniging in Gauteng to commemorate the 20th anniversary of South Africa s Constitution. The signing of the Constitution was a commemorative gesture in remembrance of the 69 people who died during a peaceful demonstration against the apartheid-era pass laws on March 21, 1960 an event commonly known as the Sharpeville Massacre . Saturday s commemorations were held under the theme Celebrating 20 years of the Constitution transforming society and uniting the nation . Saturday is also International Human Rights Day. ALSO READ: Sharpeville celebration to commemorate constitution underway In a small intimate ceremony at the Vereeniging Civic Centre, Zuma signed the Constitutional Pledge and unveiled the Constitutional Plaque which recommits government to honouring and respecting the supreme law of the country. In March, Zuma apologised to the nation after the Constitutional Court found that he had failed to uphold, defend, and respect the Constitution as the supreme law of the land following his failure to comply with the public protector s remedial action that he pay back a portion of the money spent on non-security upgrades at his private Nkandla homestead in rural KwaZulu-Natal. Gauteng acting premier Jacob Mamabolo read the pledge, which is the preamble to the Constitution: We, the people of South Africa, recognise the injustices of our past; honour those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land; respect those who have worked to build and develop our country; and believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity. This was followed by the laying of wreaths at the Sharpeville Memorial Site. Among those present, were Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, Deputy Justice and Constitutional Development Minister John Jeffery, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, and National Council of Provinces Chairwoman Thandi Modise. Zuma was scheduled to address the community at the George Thabe Sport Grounds in Sharpeville later in the day. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.