While some residents from the Vaal area believe President Jacob Zuma should be given a chance to complete his term of office, others, particularly the youth, think he should step down. ALSO READ: Zuma pledges commitment to the Constitution Zuma delivered the keynote address during the 20th celebration of the country s constitution in Sharpeville, south of Johannesburg, on Saturday. The constitution was signed into law in 1996 by Nelson Mandela in remembrance of those who were brutally killed by apartheid police during the 1960 march against pass laws. Speaking to The Citizen, one of the young people, Gift Zenzile, said he was not happy with what had been happening inside the ANC, as well as with Zuma. We have been hearing about corruption and money allegedly stolen by the president who, at some point, also appeared to be ignoring calls for him to pay back the Nkandla money. As a youngster, there are many problems of unemployment and even if there are opportunities available, they are not long-term but short-term. They keep saying we must vote for them but the time has come for Zuma. He has failed us. Zenzile felt Zuma should not have been the person asked to speak about the constitution as he had failed to adhere to it. One of the elder residents, Christina Chale, from Sebokeng, said Zuma should be allowed to continue as president as long as he followed the footsteps of Mandela. I m not interested in other political parties except for the ANC, she said. Another elderly resident, Patricia Jongilanga, said despite being unhappy that some social issues remained unresolved, she would always support the ANC. ALSO READ: Blade slams Zuma, says a man who can be bought not fit to lead SA She did not have a problem with Zuma. Mothobi Mothobi said although he had always supported Zuma, he believed the time had come for him to step down. Upon arrival, Zuma was given a hearty welcome by residents, some of whom came by bus from different parts of the Vaal. In his speech, Zuma said a key feature of the constitution was a well-developed system of checks and balances. These include judicial review, the independent judiciary, legislative oversight over the executive and the establishment of Chapter 9 institutions, which are mandated to promote and protect human rights, he said. stevent@citizen.co.za For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.