It is unbelievable that the SABC will meander on, rudderless and uncaptained, until what could well be the end of February, following the long overdue resignation of obdurate chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe. The havoc which has been wrought on the running of the public broadcaster has been amply documented before an increasingly incredulous parliamentary probe into the darker corners of the SABC. It became clear after testimony followed damning testimony, that the chaos at the corporation s Auckland Park HQ in Johannesburg has become endemic. When this type of failure within a corporate structure occurs, the sensible thing to do is abandon Plan A with alacrity and adopt Plan B, to salvage what can be salvaged from the general wreckage. READ MORE: MPs say heads must roll over SABC fraud allegations But Plan B turns out to be in the hands of Communications Minister Faith Muthambi, a person we would suggest is a blatantly political appointee, who during her testimony given before the parliamentary hearing did not exactly cover herself with dignity or with any deep appreciation about the importance of her post. What would now be involved is a labyrinthine process of advertising the posts left vacant on the board; parliamentary deliberations; and submitting a list of approved candidates to President Jacob Zuma before any presidential rubber stamp can descend. And with the House of Assembly in recess until January 24, it would be foolish to employ a stopwatch. What Muthambi must now do, is instruct acting chief executive James Aguma on what he can and cannot do until a new interim board is elected. This means effectively removing the keys to what has become a dysfunctional kingdom built on the yielding clay of naked, self-seeking ambitions. And she must invite him to occupy the throne, to at least give an appearance of a surrogate authority figure. All the while he must be under strict instructions not, on any account, to push any buttons. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.