A South African non-profit organisation Operation SA announced on Wednesday that it had raised R9.6 million in support of the victims of the war in Syria. During a briefing in Johannesburg, social activist Yusuf Abramjee, who is behind the initiative, handed over several million rands to a number of non-government organissation (NGOs) that were ensuring that the men, women and children in Syria are assisted, especially following the recent battle for Aleppo. No money will go into salaries or travel, it s all going to people on the ground in Syria. The world has been slow in helping people in Syria, including the South African government, Abramjee said while addressing the various organisations that were present. Operation SA s mission is to reduce human suffering in Syria by raising money for medicine, food, clothing, blankets and shelter for war victims. Abramjee commended the work of NGOS but said he felt more needed to be done for the people of Aleppo and other parts of Syria. He said that he was humbled by the number of South Africans who took the time to pledge and donate funds to assist those in need. R14.2 million has been pledged within a week. It tells you a lot about South Africans. The bank account currently has R9.6 million to help the men, women and children in Syria, he said. There was a family that cancelled their R15 000 holiday and donated the money to help. Abramjee emphasised that the majority of the people who donated money were not Muslim, but from various religious groups and races. Advocate Thuli Madonsela admitted to being guilty of saying something needs to be done but not initiating the change. She was proud to see organisations such as Operation SA making the change. If you see something wrong and say nothing, you are part of the situation, Madonsela said. She commended Abramjee for starting Operation SA and said there needed to be a global rebuilding foundation dedicated to helping Syria. Madonsela said she reflected on whether to donate money despite the effect it could have on her Harvard and visa applications but said she trusted the decision she made to make her contribution towards aiding Syria. African News Agency (ANA) For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.