A six-year-old boy was shot in a crossfire between armed robbers and security officers at the Centurion Lifestyle Centre on Sunday afternoon, reports the Centurion Rekord. Ruan Heyns from the Orange Fox medical services said the six-year-old sustained a flesh wound and was transported the nearest hospital. The boy is doing fine. Heyns said the armed robbers were trying to rob a vehicle about five parking spaces away from where the child was sitting in the car with his parents and two sisters. Multiple security companies were on the scene as well as the Wierdabrug police. Police could not yet confirm any arrests. Meanwhile, a case of hijacking and armed robbery is under investigation following an attempted hijacking near the The Palazzo at Montecasino on Saturday afternoon, the Fourways Review reports. Gauteng police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said on Saturday, It is alleged that at about 4pm this afternoon a 66-year-old woman and her husband arrived at Montecasino and as soon as they parked their vehicle, a gold Porche Cayenne, the woman went to the boot of the vehicle to fetch her handbag and was then approached by the three unknown armed men wearing black hand gloves.&#8221; Makhubela revealed that the suspects pointed a firearm at the woman and robbed her of her gold wedding ring. He added, When her husband saw what was happening, he confronted the suspects and they also pointed a firearm at him and also robbed him of his wrist watch. The suspects then quickly got into the victims vehicle and drove towards the boom-gate. A Mercedes Benz Vito was in front of the suspects&#8217; vehicle waiting for the security to open the gate. One of the suspects got out of vehicle and confronted the driver of the Vito, pointing a firearm at him. The driver and his occupants got out of the vehicle and took cover, said Makhubela. When the security guards noticed what was happening, they confronted the suspects and when they [suspects] realised that they were cornered they again pointed firearms at the security guards. A shootout ensued and one suspect was shot in the upper body, he was certified dead at the scene. The other two suspects fled the scene on foot and are still at large. Makhubela said a hijacked vehicle was recovered at the scene along with a 9mm pistol, a magazine with 11 rounds, gold ring and a cellphone. Police are appealling to anyone with information that might assist with investigation to phone Douglasdale Police Station on (011) 699 1333 or sms at 23311. Caxton News Service