People who decide to operate initiation schools in Gauteng despite an agreement not to operate the schools during the summer season, are violating the rules agreed upon by various stakeholders, according to chairperson of the national initiation task team, Inkosi Sipho Mahlangu. He was reacting to reports which suggested that several initiation schools in the Vaal area had already erected initiation sites, some as early as last week. Our task team met with the Gauteng team and we agreed there should not be any initiation school operating during the summer season because it poses a health risk and we saw the consequences during the last summer season, which was also marred by heatwaves, said Mahlangu. It is just too hot to have initiates during summer. We recorded several deaths during last year s summer initiation season, when some initiates suffered from dehydration while others bled to death through their noses. He said all nine provinces have been advised against holding initiations during summer. Mahlangu said he would soon be visiting the Vaal area to establish why some people decided to continue with the initiations. The issues of abductions and children just deciding to go to initiation school without the consent of their parents again resurfaced on Monday. ALSO READ: WATCH: L vovo answers his sangoma calling Several parents went to a number of police stations to report their children and relatives missing. One of the parents who spoke to The Citizen, Puseletso Motloung, said her son left home on Friday morning and never came back over the weekend. We found him on Monday morning and he said he and other boys have already been taken to Poortjie. I do not want my son to go to the initiation school because some of them, when they come back, have become part of gangs. My son is already stubborn and he sometimes steals my jewellery at home, she said. Motloung s son, who is 16, left school in 2013, when he was in Grade 5. Asked why he dropped out of school, Motloung said her son said he was not coping. Lucia Mosokoso said her brother also left home on Friday last week. Some other guys took my brother, but we managed to find him, she said. Community leader Jabulani Dlomo said although he did not have all the statistics with him, several boys were abducted. He said more than 50 initiation schools were already in operation. We don t know how they will react if the police try to close the initiation schools down, or when some parents go looking for their children, he said. The national initiation task team s Mahlangu said that as part of attempting to curb initiation deaths, efforts have been made to ensure that health officials were present during initiations. During the pre-screening process of potential initiates, traditional surgeons are unable to analyse medical reports as we have previously seen, he said. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.