Sri Lanka could only make it through the first hour of the final day and not much farther as South Africa bowled them out for 281 to win the first Test by 206 runs at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Friday. It was the 29-year-old Kyle Abbott (20-6-38-2), playing just his 10th Test but bowling like a seasoned veteran, who led the way after Sri Lanka resumed on 240 for five, removing Angelo Mathews and Dhananjaya de Silva, the two remaining recognised batsmen who were meant to be the tourists guiding hands on the fifth day. Captain Mathews had led the rearguard for Sri Lanka, batting for 169 minutes in scoring 59, before he shuffled across his stumps and missed a glance to leg. Also read: Blow by blow: Ruthless Proteas wrap up 206-run win I think shot-selection is key on a pitch like this and against a bowling attack like that. I had to concentrate and work very hard because they give you much less opportunity to score runs. You look for the bad ball, but you don t get one for a long time, so you have to stay focused and wait for the loose one, Mathews said after Sri Lanka s biggest defeat to South Africa by a margin of runs, worse than the 153-run hiding dished out in Galle in 2014. Umpire Bruce Oxenford did not have to think quite as hard four overs later when De Silva shuffled across his crease and was struck in front by a delivery from Abbott that nipped back. De Silva tried to get lucky again and called for the review, but this time there was no reprieve and his hour-long innings was ended on 22. Abbott s high-grade pace bowling had earned him two for seven in five overs on the fifth morning and fellow seamers Vernon Philander (22-5-65-1) and Kagiso Rabada (21-4-77-3) then took a wicket apiece. Fittingly, it was spinner Keshav Maharaj (30.3-7-86-3) who sealed the victory, pitching the ball on middle-and-leg and turning it to hit off-stump, a horrible delivery for number 11 Nuwan Pradeep (4) to have to deal with. As hard as Sri Lanka fought, making the highest ever fourth-innings score in a Port Elizabeth Test, they were undone by some awful shots, as Mathews acknowledged. In the first innings we batted pretty poorly, we should have got a lot more than 200, and after conceding that lead it was hard to get back in the game. But we played some terrible shots in the second innings, Mathews said. South Africa captain Faf du Plessis was delighted with his bowling attack, but said the batsmen had yet to really hit their straps. I feel we re not really batting well as a unit, although there have been some great individual efforts. I want to see us bat more as a unit. We need to push our first-innings scores to 350-400. We just must not settle, we have to look at areas to improve, especially when we re winning. But the three seamers have done an amazing job. Kyle has stepped into Dale Steyn s shoes, it s been incredible that he s done as well as Dale did, so we re very lucky in that respect. Every time Kyle has just bowled with incredible consistency, as captain it s so easy just to throw the ball to him. Kagiso was not as quick as he can be, but you re not always going to be on-song as a fast bowler, but he bowled five overs around the wicket, which is not easy, he worked very hard and got a really important wicket, Du Plessis said. The Proteas captain, who has now won four of his six Tests in charge, said that the lushness of the pitch prevented the ball from getting roughed up and that put paid to reverse-swing, one of the Proteas key weapons. Normally it does reverse here on days four and five, but we asked for longer grass to make sure there was no spin, so the ball didn t get scuffed up and that nullified a strength of ours. But the groundsman got the wicket spot-on, it was a great pitch, Du Plessis said. The skipper was also happy that he made the Proteas second-innings declaration when he did, due to how flat the pitch played on the last two days. I was batting at the time so I knew the pitch was at its best and we expected it to be flat, even on day five. On the fourth day we saw exactly that and Sri Lanka showed how tough it was going to be. They gave us a few soft wickets and if they hadn t done that, then they could have chased down the target. There was enough time left in the game, Du Plessis said. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. 