The Gauteng basic education MEC Panyaza Lesufi on Wednesday said his department was ready for the 2017 academic year despite 82 279 learners not being placed in schools. Beginning of the year, we will be in the position to deal with the problems, MEC Lesufi said during a briefing at the department of education offices in Johannesburg. Lesufi said the department would be dedicating time to ensuring that all learners have a school to go to when the academic year resumes in 2017. He said that the GDE budget had been adjusted to about R200 million in order to employ new teachers and buy new equipment to ensure that learners have decent learning environments. Parents who haven t responded to their applications and indicated whether their child will be accepting the school or not, have created a backlog in the system. The department has successfully placed 229 125 children in various schools in Gauteng for 2017. Lesufi confirmed that a number of areas in the province had already reached their capacity and would not be able to accept anymore learners, which included Boksburg, Bryanston, Lenasia and Pretoria North. Parents who want their children in these areas should accept other options, he said. MEC Lesufi said that township and semi-rural schools would continue to receive nutritional assistance from the National School Nutrition Programme, and he apologised to parents from schools in areas where it was assumed that the children would not need nutritional assistance. The MEC touched on a number of issues that the department had sorted out for 2017, which included 100% delivery of grade 11 and 12 literature textbooks as well as stationery. Lesufi also wished all the Grade 12 pupils learners the best of luck for their exam results and said the department was looking forward to an improved performance in the National Senior Certificate results. We have partnered with Life Line to assist learners who are stressed pending the release of their final examination results which are set to be released early January, Lesufi said. We are urging parents to provide all the support the learners will need. African News Agency For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.