Stormy weather has caused the tent, in which President Jacob Zuma was addressing a crowd on the Day of Reconciliation in the North West, to collapse. News24 reported that people stampeded out of the tent as the top of the marquee was lifted by the strong winds. It was further reported that the tent collapsed as Zuma spoke of the &#8220;painful and traumatic&#8221; Marikana incident, in which 44 people were killed in August 2012 during labour unrest. Proceedings have been cancelled and no injuries have been reported yet. People flee when a storm destroys the tent during Zuma&#39;s speech at Day of Reconciliation celebration @DrumMagazine #reconciliationday pic.twitter.com/4vpoIGqEdH &mdash; Ayanda Sitole (@sitole) December 16, 2016 Breaking News: President Jacob Zuma&#39;s Reconciliation Day speech halted by angry weather in North West Province &mdash; Mike Fraser (@ezramt) December 16, 2016 Zuma leaves as storm causes chaos during his speech at the Day of Reconciliation celebrations in North West @DrumMagazine #reconciliatinday &mdash; Ayanda Sitole (@sitole) December 16, 2016 Earlier in the day, Zuma arrived to a rousing welcome in Gopane near Zeerust for the National Day of Reconciliation celebrations. An ecstatic crowd chanted Zuma, Zuma, Zuma as he made his way to the stage flanked by North West premier Supra Mahumapelo and Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and some cabinet ministers. ALSO READ: North West premier gets hero s welcome at Reconciliation Day event Members of the SA Police Service formed a human barrier between the crowd and Zuma s entourage. President Zuma was expected to speak at the National Day of Reconciliation event held at a sport ground in Gopane. The event was being held in Gopane to commemorate the bravery of women in 1957 in Zeerust in the villages of Dinokana, Lekgopung and Motswedi villages, who had revolted against the apartheid laws that required them to at all times have their pass books on them. Prior to Zuma s arrival, a sod-turning ceremony was held in Groot Marico at the very place where he was was arrested in 1963 by the apartheid police on his way to skip the country. A monument is expected to be built at the site. North West premier Supra Mahumapelo said the provincial government had started a programme of reconciliation, healing and renewal aimed at strenghtening unity in the province. Day of Reconciliation was celebrated as a public holiday for the first time in 1995. The new government chose to represent national unity by choosing a date that had significance for both the Afrikaner and liberation struggle traditions. For Afrikaners, December 16 was commemorated as the Day of the Vow, also known as Day of the Covenant or Dingaan s Dag (Dingaan s Day). The African National Congress (ANC) military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) was formed on December 16, 1961. MK was integrated into the South African National Defence Force. When Apartheid ended, it was decided to keep December 16 as a public holiday, but to infuse it with the purpose of fostering reconciliation and national unity. It was established by the government in 1994. Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA) More news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.