Through the years we have gotten to know some of the most prominent SA celebs through their time on YoTV. The newest YoTV presenters made their debut earlier this year, but we can t help but wonder where some of our favourites from the 2000 s have ended up. It won t hurt to find out. Khanya Mkangisa Khanya is still a recognisable face in SA entertainment as she replaced Zizo Beda as a presenter for SABC 1 s lifestyle show Selimathunzi. Just like Sipho, she also starred in the Mzansi Magic drama series Rockeville. Khanya is clearly keeping busy as she recently hosted the Chevrolet Feather Awards which celebrates the LGBT community. Sade Giliberti Sade currently resides in the hustle and bustle of London. She decided to make her recent move to the UK in order to expand her horizons and seek new job opportunities. The move definitely worked out for her. In Sade s biography for her website it says that she is the official host for ColdLust UK s LGBT events. On top of that she has her very own line of eyewear products in collaboration with Sammi Gomez handcrafted eyewear. Mandisa Nakana It s quite interesting to know that just like Sade, Mandisa also ended up in the UK. The UK seems like the place to be for these former YoTV presenters. Mandisa is currently married and raisingthree lovely daughters. She has also recently started a YouTube channel called Shine Your Light in which she documents her life and thoughts. Sipho Ngwenya (Psyfo) Sipho was easily recognisable on YoTV back in the day with his short dreads and charming smile. Fast-forward to 2016 and you probably know him as Ajax from SABC 1 s Generations or Mzansi Magic s drama series Rockeville. As of late he s still dating long term girlfriend Hulisani Ravele, and by long term we mean they ve been together for ten years. He is also still growing strong as both a singer and actor. Carly Fields Since her days of presenting along with Sipho and Sade on YoTV, Carly is still a thriving TV presenter. She s also gone on to be a radio presenter and mother of two. To add to her list of endevours, Carly is a brand ambassador for fitness brand ASICS SA. This works perfectly for healthy lifestyle as an avid runner. Brought to you by People Magazine For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.