There&#8217;s no denying Thursday evening&#8217;s friendly cricket game between the Proteas and the Springboks at Newlands is nothing more than fun and games. That&#8217;s the point of an exhibition game celebrating the first democratically-elected president. But it would be a tad unfair to dismiss the skills showcased by all the players involved, even if the Protea bolwers are required to bowl off shortened run-ups. The Springboks really aren&#8217;t as hopeless with bat and ball as some would have us believe. Numerous members were excellent cricketers at school. Pat Lambie, the Boks&#8217; captain on the night, was on his way to becoming a cricketer before belatedly concentrating on rugby near the end of his high school years. Willie le Roux snaffled three wickets in December 2014&#8217;s previous match and took a superb one-handed catch that delighted the Wanderers crowd. The Proteas should also be wary of Damian de Allende, who was a genuinely quick paceman at school. It&#8217;s not only the Boks&#8217; dormant cricketing talents that come to the fore. Before commencing the previous match in Johannesburg, both sides nominated a player to participate in a drop-kicking contest. The winner of that shoot-out was Proteas fast bowler Wayne Parnell, who showcased the type of accurate, fleet-footed kicking ability associated with a competent soccer player at school. And it&#8217;s exactly those thrilling stunts that should be celebrated because it shows just how talented and versatile South African sporting stars really are. Squads: Proteas: Hashim Amla, Mangaliso Mosehle, Faf du Plessis, JP Duminy, David Miller, Farhaan Behardien, Wayne Parnell, Dwaine Pretorius, Aaron Phangiso, Imran Tahir, Kyle Abbott. Springboks: Pat Lambie, Damian de Allende, Faf de Klerk, Jean de Villiers, Stephan Dippenaar, Butch James, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Conrad Jantjes, Tiaan Liebenberg, Percy Montgomery, Trevor Nyakane, Sergeal Petersen, Graeme Smith. In a first for cricket, SuperSport will live stream via Facebook the T20 match between the Proteas and Springboks in Cape Town on Thursday. The action, which begins at 17.30, can be streamed live via www.facebook.com/supersport. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter. Highlights from the previous game in December 2014: