As the fifth instalment of South Africa s democratic parliament passes its halfway mark there s much to look back on as 2016 comes to an end the good, the bad and the ugly. The parliamentary year officially kicked off with President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address (Sona) on February 11. It was preceded by an increased police presence outside the parliamentary gates with nyalas, dozens of police vehicles and even a perimeter being formed with barbed wire as just months before protesting students had managed to breach the parliamentary gates. Inside the National Assembly building, the number of members of the parliamentary protection guard, more commonly known as the white shirts , swelled in anticipation of a repeat of what happened during Sona 2015. On that occasion, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) MPs disrupted Zuma s speech and refused to obey instructions from the Speaker. They were physically dragged out of the chamber with fists being exchanged and red hard-hats being thrown at Parliament s bouncers , as the defiant MPs refer to them. The EFF repeated its performance during Sona 2016, disrupting Zuma s speech, challenging the patience of Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairwoman Thandi Modise, who had a hard time maintaining order. Even the leader of the Democratic Alliance, the official opposition, Mmusi Maimane, grew impatient, saying 8.3 million unemployed South Africans needed to know what plan Zuma would put in place to get them back at work. Congress of the People leader Mosiuoa Lekota joined the EFF in their protests, jumping up on a point of order , declaring: Madam Speaker, the honourable president has already admitted before us in the Constitutional Court that he broke his oath of office he is no longer honourable we cannot sit here and listen to him. He is no longer fit to lead our people. This later became a quasi-motto of the EFF, who refused to attend Zuma s final question-and-answer session in Parliament this year, saying they did not recognise him as the country s legitimate leader. This year s Sona chaos ended with Lekota being ejected, followed by the EFF MPs, who left without any fisticuffs with parliamentary security personnel on this occasion. Zuma eventually got to speak, albeit an hour later. He delivered a speech many commentators described as lacklustre. Nenegate fallout Some other remnants of 2015 also spilled over into 2016. After the shock axing of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister in December last year and Zuma s appointment of little-known Des Van Rooyen, followed by the president s climbdown after significant pressure to appoint Pravin Gordhan, the fight over who holds the purse strings continued and was acutely felt in Parliament. Just days before tabling the budget in the national legislature, Gordhan was sent a list of 27 questions by Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza over an alleged rogue spy unit at the SA Revenue Service (Sars) which the minister previously headed. Months later, just prior to tabling the medium-term budget policy statement, the finance minister was summonsed to appear in court on another matter related to the payment of pension with full benefits to former Sars deputy commissioner, Ivan Pillay, upon early retirement. A confident National Prosecuting Authority head Shaun Abrahams, a Zuma appointee, told Parliament s justice portfolio committee that the charges were warranted. On the sidelines of that meeting, he told journalists Gordhan would not have been summonsed if they didn t have a watertight case. That statement proved false as charges were withdrawn publicly by Abrahams due to insufficient evidence just two days before Gordhan was due to appear in court. The offensive on Gordhan was a move that saw several ruling party and opposition party parliamentarians vow to defend him and the national fiscus. They included Jackson Mthembu, former ANC spokesman, who this year replaced Stone Sizani as the ruling party s chief whip. Mthembu has been openly admitting the ruling party s failures and the need for change. His statement that the entire national executive committee of the ruling party, including Zuma, should have resigned after losing three metros to opposition parties on August 3 did not go down well with the president s backers, such as the party s youth league, who called for Mthembu s head. Mthembu remains chief whip a sign perhaps of anti-Zuma sentiment beginning to filter through to the ANC caucus. Insults and court cases National Assembly and National Council of Provinces sittings often degenerated into chaos, with name-calling and crude hand gestures being exchanged by the country s honourable members . It was also a year in which the judiciary was called on to settle matters when Parliament did not go by the book, that book being democratic South Africa s founding document, the Constitution. The country s highest court, the Constitutional Court, ruled that a resolution passed by the National Assembly in 2015 to adopt a report exonerating Zuma for not adhering to the binding recommendations of the Public Protector that he pay back the money used for non-security upgrades at Nkandla, his private homestead, was illegal. Some work also gets done Despite the setbacks, there were some highlights, most notably the work done by two ad hoc committees one interviewing and selecting a candidate for the post of public protector and another inquiring into the dire state of affairs at the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC). The ad hoc committee that ultimately recommended Busisiwe Mkhwebane as the next public protector went out of its way to get the public involved in the process of selecting and interviewing candidates. The CVs of candidates were posted on the parliamentary website and South Africans could object or comment. Also, the interviews, which lasted more than 20 hours, were shown live on television. It s a precedent that Parliament was hoping to replicate in how it dealt with the selection of candidates hoping to serve at other chapter nine institutions. Unfinished business at SABC Parliament officially rose on December 7, with the majority of MPs making their trips home or to their constituencies. The ad hoc committee inquiring into the SABC board, however, remained behind and heard what MPs called shocking and explosive testimony about the state the broadcaster was in. The main culprit, according to former executives, former board members and journalists, was Hlaudi Motsoeneng, who is seen to be close to Zuma. Executives testified how they were made to fear him. Board members told MPs how much power he wielded without directly mentioning who was behind Motsoeneng s meteoric rise from being producer of a current affairs show in the Free State to several senior positions at SABC headquarters in Johannesburg. Most controversial was his appointment as chief operating officer in 2014 after the public protector found he had lied about having matric and was not qualified for the position. Most disturbing of all was the testimony of senior journalists Thembeka Gqubule, Krivani Pillay, Lukhanyo Calata and Vuyo Mvoko who said the news was being censored and slanted. When they raised concerns about this, they said, they were fired along with four other colleagues. They were eventually rehired after public outrage and bringing a labour court challenge, but continued to receive threats from nameless and faceless individuals. Several complaints had been lodged with police, including one that a journalist who had testified had received an SMS reading: Traitors protecting your white friends in Parliament who started this, telling lies about your comrades. You are warned, we don t kill blacks but sit and watch the blood flow. In an unprecedented move, the ad hoc committee, through the Speaker, had to use Parliament s power of summons to compel SABC board chairman Mbulaheni Maguvhe to appear before MPs after he failed to pitch when he was due to testify. They also had to summon him to provide the committee with critical documents, which include a deal, negotiated by Motsoeneng, with MultiChoice for access to SABC archives valued at more than R200 million. When Maguvhe finally sat in the witness chair he appeared to know very little about the controversies at the corporation, including the saga surrounding the journalists, a story which often headlined on radio, television and in print media. He was unable to answer even simple questions such as who owned the SABC. Maguvhe, the last remaining board member, eventually resigned last week after failing at several attempts to stall the work of the committee and accusing MPs of being unfair to him. His resignation would not affect the committee s work. What awaits in 2017? While Parliament was prepared to bare its teeth this time round it remains to be seen how hard it bites when the SABC inquiry continues on January 10 next year. MPs on this ad hoc committee were impressed with themselves (and perhaps rightly so), saying it was rare for parliamentarians from across political lines to be united in getting to the bottom of a problem and trying to solve it. Some said the same approach should be used to clean up the mess at other state-owned entities that form the backbone of the South African economy. They include Eskom, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa and South African Airways. African News Agency (ANA)