Vernon Philander claimed his 20th wicket against Sri Lanka in five games and Kyle Abbott also excelled on his new home ground as South Africa reduced the visitors to 104 for five at tea on the second day of the first Test at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. Sri Lanka were replying to South Africa s first innings of 286, but Philander and Abbott knocked over their top-order as the home side brushed off the disappointment of their batting collapse in the morning. Also read: Proteas in charge after chaotic first session at St George&#8217;s Philander had taken two for 23 in 13 superb overs that featured the most perfect seam position imaginable, while Abbott, who has joined the Eastern Cape Warriors this season after beginning his career in KZN with the Dolphins, also obtained considerable movement as he took two for 28 in 11 excellent overs. Although the initial forecast predicted rain on Tuesday afternoon, the sun shone on a humid day that provided swing for the pace bowlers, and Sri Lanka s batsmen struggled. Captain Angelo Mathews defied the potent Proteas attack for almost two hours, scoring 39, before Kagiso Rabada finally gained some success by bowling a fuller length, drawing an edge which was snapped up by Dean Elgar at third slip. Opener Kaushal Silva scored a nuggety 16 in 108 minutes, before he was trapped lbw by Philander, a decision which was unsuccessfully reviewed by the batsman, the champion seamer having followed up a series of away-swingers with a delivery that nipped back off the pitch. The first session of the day was also dominated by the ball as seven wickets fell, South Africa seizing control by reducing Sri Lanka to 37 for three at lunch. After South Africa had lost their last four wickets for 19 runs in 8.5 overs, Abbott and Philander then put the smiles back on the home fans faces. A humid morning and a healthy covering of grass on the pitch was like mother s milk for the pair of opening seamers and they needed just 21 balls to strike as Dimuth Karunaratne (5) shattered his own stumps trying to drive an Abbott delivery that nipped back a bit to find the inside edge. Kusal Perera (7) came in at three and, judging by the looseness of his technique during his 13-ball innings, it is way too high for him. His habit of slashing wildly outside off stump is going to result in a high percentage of edges and sure enough he was caught behind by Quinton de Kock off Philander in the seventh over. Kusal Mendis then fell to Abbott for a duck, trying to drive on the up, the ball jagging away off the seam and hitting high up on the bat before going through to wicketkeeper De Kock, who took a good diving catch. Wicketkeeper/batsman Dinesh Chandimal was fighting hard with new batsman Dhananjaya de Silva (6*), having been at the crease for 76 minutes for his 21 not out. The flood of Sri Lankan wickets recalled the end of the South African innings, as they resumed on 267 for six but were all back in the changeroom within 45 minutes of the second day. For more sport your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.