Rapidly rising temperatures in southern Africa could devastate agriculture, energy demand and water security. According to Council for Scientific and Industrial Research s (CSIR) chief researcher specialising in climate modelling Professor Francios Engelbrecht the summer of 2015/16 produced the highest temperatures in recorded history over southern Africa. The southern African region is likely to become drier under climate change, with significant increases in surface temperatures and with higher frequencies of heatwave days and high fire danger days, Engelbrecht said, speaking at the CSIR media round-table discussion on water issues on Wednesday, focusing on the El Nino and La Nina phenomena over southern Africa. He said when it came to climate change and water in South Africa, people should first take note of the temperatures. Engelbrecht said towards the end of this century, surface temperatures are likely to be 4 C to 7 C higher over the interior, compared to the present day. In the short term, Engelbrecht said the La Nina phenomenon was predicted to persist through the southern hemisphere for the summer. It was only expected to start weakening in March next year. ALSO READ: Watch 1st person receive new HIV vaccine Although the prospect of widespread and good summer rainfall is, in general, good news, it should be noted that this is a weak La Nina. In the past, these have been associated with below normal summer rainfall and damaging floods, Engelbrecht said. It is important to realise that the southern African region is warming up significantly. Temperatures in our region are rising rapidly. Over our interior regions, temperatures have been increasing at twice the global rate. By the 2030s, there will be no cool years. In the second half of the century, the temperature will be an alarming 4 C warmer than what we are used to. We are dead confident in these projections of temperature changes. This will have direct impact on agriculture, on soil moisture, and is likely to significantly influence evaporation. If a place becomes drier and warmer, there is very little you can do. Daily evaporation will also increase over South African dams, due to the drier and warmer conditions. Meanwhile, CSIR senior researcher specialising in coal processing Johan de Korte said with the heat and the current water situation in the country, there is a need to process coal without using water. He said South Africa depends on coal as a source of economic value, employment and energy. 77% of south Africa s energy needs are provided by coal. Eskom produces 95% of the electricity used in South Africa &#8211; 90% of this from coal-fired power stations, De Korte said. He said approximately 350 million tons of coal is mined annually. He added that while the majority of coal is mined in the Witbank/Highveld area, resources in these areas are becoming depleted. Much of our future coal will be mined from the Waterberg and Limpopo coal fields, which are situated in dry areas. De Korte said the CSIR through Coaltech with industrial partners as well as Chinese companies, have been researching dry beneficiation techniques since 2009. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.