Despite unsatisfactory performance in the local government elections this year, the ANC says it remains the hope of the people of South Africa. The ANC lost control of the three powerful metros Tshwane, Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth. The ruling party identified factionalism, corruption and disunity as an affront to the people of South Africa, dividing the progressive forces and robbing the people of opportunities for development and progress. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said the party has committed itself to acting on the concerns of the people, placing unity of the movement and strict management of party discipline at the core of its programme for renewal of the movement. ALSO READ: Cope: Zuma s white monopoly capital comments insult ANC veterans They must and shall become exceptions in our movement as we begin to define our new normal unity in action towards the realization of socio-economic freedom, Kodwa said. The ANC, governing over 75% of municipalities in the country, remains the hope of the people of South Africa a movement of the people to effect fundamental socio-economic transformation, creating a better life for all. Kodwa said the year 2016 will forever go down in the annals of history as a momentous and significant year for South Africa. He said the ANC s branches remain the basic unit of our movement, tasked with the responsibility of transforming society at a local level . Their strength and cohesion is imperative for sustaining the national democratic Revolution. As we advance to 2017, an eventful year for the ANC, we will continue to rely upon them and all structures of the movement to remain reliable tools in the hands of the people to build a truly united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa. The ANC will hold its elective conference in December next year. So far, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and outgoing African Union Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma are regarded as front-runners in the ANC presidential race. For more news your way, follow The Citizen on Facebook and Twitter.