With just over a week into the current summer initiation season, already one death has been recorded. This comes in the wake of concerns about the very hot weather conditions initiates have to endure in some parts of the country. Last week, most parts of the country were gripped in a heatwave, which saw maximum temperatures in some areas hitting the 400C mark. According to the chairperson of the national initiation task team, Inkosi Sipho Mahlangu, the latest death happened at an illegal initiation school in the Eastern Cape. This time last year, seven initiation-related deaths were reported, and the national death toll for the initiation season stood at 37. Mahlangu said they were still investigating the exact cause of the initiate s death. One of the biggest issues we have had, particularly in the Eastern Cape, has been that of some parents who don t want to cooperate with government. Some have even gone as far as saying officials who are working with us to ensure that all initiates are safe, are there to destroy their culture. Despite the resistance from some of the parents, we will not stop our work of ensuring that all the initiation rules are adhered to. To avoid deaths and injuries, it is important for everyone to undergo a screening test, where we check people s health conditions, as well as the initiation sites themselves, Mahlangu said. During the summer initiation season, the Eastern Cape normally has an intake of between 60 000 and 70 000 initiates. Other provinces that also conducted initiations during summer include Gauteng, Free State and Northern Cape. In Gauteng, where an agreement was reached to abandon initiation schools for this summer season due to health reasons, Mahlangu confirmed some still went ahead and started operating almost two weeks ago in the Vaal. We found several initiation schools operating illegally this week and we managed to rescue the children. A total of six schools were closed in Sebokeng and nine in other parts of the Vaal, Mahlangu said. Gauteng police spokesperson Kay Makhubela called on anyone who might have more information regarding gang violence to come forward. stevent@citizen.co.za