The City of Cape Town is reminding the public that it is illegal to stop on a freeway and warns motorists that doing so makes them vulnerable to possible criminal attacks, especially on the N2 and R300, which have become hotspots in recent years. In a statement on Friday, the City s MMC for Safety and Security, Alderman JP Smith, said the city was urging motorists to plan their routes carefully and to do regular maintenance checks on their cars. Check tyre pressure when you re filling up and always make sure you have enough fuel. While the City s enforcement agencies patrol the major routes, criminals pounce in a split second, and so if it s possible to avoid having to stop along the road during a journey, please don t, said Smith. During the first three weeks of December, the Freeway Management System cameras detected 454 vehicles along the shoulder of the N2 and R300. There were no reasons established for 66 of the incidents, while the remaining 388 were mostly stop and go , drop off or pick-ups incidents. A total of 114 incidents was confirmed as vehicle troubles, including mechanical failure, flat tyres and running out of fuel incidents. Another reported incident was on Saturday when two metro police officers assisted a stranded motorist and her four-month-old baby on the R300. One of the officers also gave the motorist a courtesy call a few hours later to enquire about her and the baby s well-being. Smith added: The motorist brought the incident to our attention and expressed her gratitude to the staff members. This is but one example of how our staff assist the public. There have even been instances where officers have driven to filling stations to buy petrol for stranded motorists to help them on their way again. The City is happy to help, but we appeal to motorists to do everything possible to ensure that they have a safe journey, including making sure their cars are in good condition and that cellphones are charged and contain the number for the City s 107 call centre so they can call for help should they be stranded, said Smith. I want to remind visitors to Cape Town to be vigilant too. Know where you re going before you depart, don t stop and ask just anyone for directions in the event that you get lost. Look for a filling station or police station instead and please, while driving, make sure that valuables are kept well out of sight. 