If classes at the University of Cape Town (UCT) do not resume today, the whole academic year will be lost, according to vice-chancellor Max Price.
In a statement issued at the weekend, Price said South Africa was reaching a point of no return.
“If classes start on Monday, we can still save the teaching term and write the exams between November 7 and 25. If we do not return on Monday, the academic term is lost and the consequences are absolutely dire. In other words, we are out of time,” said Price.
Price said it was concerning the institution may face disruptions when some services come into operation today.
“In order for students to conclude their work and prepare for exams, we will open the libraries,” said Price.
READ MORE: Wits student leader Mcebo Dlamini arrested 
“The Jammie Shuttle will be operational. Study areas and many computer laboratories will be open and critical services across campus will be sustained to support students as they conclude their work for the year and prepare for the exams. “It is an inevitability that security will be present and other security on standby, to be deployed if operations are threatened. We do so reluctantly because we understand that staff and students are divided on this issue and security on campus has a negative collateral impact.”
Elsewhere, student representative council (SRC) representatives at North West University’s (NWU) Vaal campus said there was a likelihood that classes might not resume today following fresh protests there on Friday.
Police fired rubber bullets at protesting students, who accused management of not wanting to engage them further on the issue of fees.
NWU was also forced into an early recess due to the student protest. Not far from there, it remains to be seen if lectures will resume at the Vaal University of Technology (VUT) today after protesting students went on the rampage last week, setting alight a maintenance room as well as part of a building at the student residence, which was undergoing renovations.
Apart from free education, students there are also demanding that the university reverse a decision to suspend and expel some student leaders.
One of the expelled SRC leaders, Troy Mathebula, said the meeting between student representatives and management held on Friday last week came to naught.
Another meeting was scheduled for yesterday.
The Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) said it expected classes to resume today following a week of violent protests at various campuses.
“If this academic year is lost it will not only have an extremely adverse effect on the academic futures of the nearly 60 000 students who currently study at the university, but also on new students who want to start their studies at TUT next year, as well as on the economy and our country,” said TUT in a statement.
“The impact will be devastating should this academic year not be completed successfully.”
At the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, it is still not clear when classes will resume after they were suspended last week.
The plan was to resume classes last week but that was frustrated by large groups of protesters, who disrupted classes.