The ANC of President Jacob Zuma and that of late ANC president Oliver Tambo are two very foreign entities, which cannot be compared to each other, political analysts say.
This after Zuma, in delivering his address during the Oliver Tambo Memorial this week, appealed for unity within the party, adding that internal divisions were threatening to tear it apart.
“Let us not be divided. Let us not see enemies among ourselves,” he said. He added that during Tambo’s time, “whether the ANC … was speaking in New Delhi or New York, there would not be contradictions”.
The party’s parliamentary chief whip, Jackson Mthembu, recently called on the ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) and Zuma to resign. And it was Zuma who was one of the initiators of the so-called divisions within the party, analysts said.
Read more: ANC under Zuma worse than apartheid, says Mthembu
“He is invoking an ANC of OR Tambo that was well led, on the basis of principle and commitment to the cause,” analyst Aubrey Matshiqi said. “It was an ANC that was selfless; an ANC that privileged the rights of ordinary people, rather than those in leadership.
“It can be argued that by calling on the ANC to be that kind of party meant he is committing political suicide, because he doesn’t belong to that ANC.”
Zuma’s ANC was “alien” to that of Tambo’s, he said.
“These two ANCs are foreign to each other. They are not part of the same struggle. Zuma does not belong to that ANC. He has betrayed that ANC.”
Matshiqi further charged that “some would go as far as to say he is the worst president post-apartheid”. A copy of Zuma’s speech points to Tambo being “the glue that held the ANC together in exile during challenging conditions”.
“He managed to do this because of his leadership qualities. Key among these was the fact that he was a good listener and always sought to achieve consensus.
“He was humble and respected every viewpoint, and in that way, he was able to make all feel important and welcomed in the organisation,” Zuma said. “The values of unity, selflessness, sacrifice, collective leadership, humility, honesty, discipline, hard work, internal debates, constructive criticism and self-criticism and mutual respect encapsulate what president Tambo stood for.”
But analyst Andre Duvenage said those qualities attributed by Zuma to Tambo further showed the president speaking against himself. “In the first place, the ANC of 2016 is by far not the one of the ’60s and ’70s.”
Accompanying Zuma, following his election as president of the organisation at its Polokwane conference in 2007, had been the “spy tapes saga”, setting the tone for him not leading, he said. “The spy tapes created the tradition of Zuma not leading by example.”
A freedom movement, being the ANC of the past, had also transformed into a fully fledged political party that “debates the politics of the day”. And this debate reflects the inability of the president, said Duvenage.
Also read: ANC needs fresh new leadership, says Madikizela-Mandela
“His own example is not anything to go by. He is probably the worst leader the ANC has produced and the best example he can set is to step down. If you are a president with integrity you would step out and let the system go on.”
Ralph Mathekga, analyst and author of the new book When Zuma Goes, added that in his perspective, he didn’t think “it could get worse” for the president. Zuma was aware that he is now “compromised” and “then calls for unity”, he added.
“It’s a blame game – he is saying let’s not play into this. He knows he is comprised. It’s like someone who had an epiphany – they wake up and try to repair the situation.”
– yadhanaj@citizen.co.za